Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the net asset value of our common stock and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history. We were organized in December 2011 and closed our IPO on December 10, 2012. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any recently formed business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. We anticipate that it will take us six to 12 months following the date of our IPO to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of the IPO and the Concurrent Private Placement in accordance with our investment objectives and strategies, in part because privately negotiated investments in illiquid securities or private small-cap companies require substantial due diligence and structuring. During this period, we intend to invest the remaining net proceeds of the IPO and the Concurrent Private Placement in short-term investments, such as cash and cash equivalents. We expect we will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving from investments in the future. As a result, any distributions we make during this period may be substantially lower than the distributions that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. The lack of experience of our investment adviser in operating under the constraints imposed on us as a business development company and RIC may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to other investment vehicles managed by H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates. Business development companies are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private or thinly traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as qualifying assets only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. While our investment adviser has experience investing in securities of U.S. private or thinly traded public companies, neither we nor our investment adviser has any experience operating under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that our investment adviser will be able to operate our business under these constraints. Any failure to do so could subject us to enforcement action by the SEC, cause us to fail to satisfy the requirements associated with RIC status, cause us to fail the 70% eligible portfolio company test described above or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to business development companies and possibly lose our status as a business development company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to comply with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms, or at all. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer, and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments for less than we could have received if we were able to sell them at a later time. We depend upon key personnel of H.I.G. Capital, our investment adviser and its affiliates. We are an externally managed business development company, and therefore we do not have any internal management capacity or employees. We will depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our investment adviser to achieve our investment objectives. We expect that our investment adviser will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement. Our investment adviser is an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital and will, in turn, depend upon access to the investment professionals and other resources of H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. WhiteHorse Advisers will also depend on H.I.G. Capital to obtain access to deal flow generated by the professionals of H.I.G. Capital. Under the Staffing Agreement, an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital has agreed to provide our investment adviser with the resources necessary to fulfill these obligations. The Staffing Agreement provides that the affiliate will make available to WhiteHorse Advisers experienced investment professionals and access to the senior investment personnel of H.I.G. Capital for purposes of evaluating, negotiating, structuring, closing and monitoring our investments. We are not a party to this Staffing Agreement and cannot assure you that the affiliate of H.I.G. Capital will fulfill its obligations under the agreement. If the affiliate fails to perform, we cannot assure you that our investment adviser will enforce the Staffing Agreement, that such agreement will not be terminated by either party or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates or their market knowledge and deal flow. We depend upon the senior professionals of H.I.G. Capital to maintain relationships with sources of investment opportunities, and we intend to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships. We cannot assure you that these individuals will continue to provide investment advice to us. If these individuals, including the members of the investment committee, are no longer employed by our investment adviser or an affiliate of our investment adviser, or fail to maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom H.I.G. Capital has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon H.I.G. Capital’s proprietary deal-flow and network of informal and unconventional potential deal sources in the small-cap business community. Any inability of H.I.G. Capital to maintain or develop this network, or the failure of this network to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We depend upon H.I.G. Capital to maintain its extensive, proprietary small-cap deal sourcing network, and we expect to rely to a significant extent upon this network to provide us with investment opportunities. This network of informal and unconventional deal sources in the small-cap business community includes accountants, attorneys, brokers, insurance agents, consultants and financial advisors who have access to small-cap companies. If H.I.G. Capital fails to maintain such sourcing network, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. 23 Table of Contents If our investment adviser is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to manage our business and to grow our business. This depends, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. This, in turn, will depend on the ability of H.I.G. Capital to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will depend upon our investment adviser’s execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our investment adviser will have substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory Agreement. The personnel of H.I.G. Capital who are made available to our investment adviser under the Staffing Agreement are engaged in other business activities and may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies, either of which activities could divert their time and attention such that they could no longer dedicate a significant portion of their time and attention to our business or otherwise slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not replicate the historical results achieved by other entities managed or sponsored by members of the investment committee or by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. Our primary focus in making investments generally differs from that of existing investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of the investment committee or sponsored by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve comparable results. In addition, investors in our common stock are not acquiring an interest in any such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of the investment committee or sponsored by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. While we may consider co-investing in portfolio investments with other investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles managed by members of the investment committee or sponsored by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates, our ability to make such investments will be limited by the 1940 Act, including, potentially, requiring the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, SEC exemptive relief for which we have filed an application with the SEC. We can offer no assurance that we will obtain such approvals or exemptive relief or develop opportunities that comply with such limitations. We also cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by members of the investment committee, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. Additionally, all or a portion of the prior results may have been achieved in particular market conditions which may never be repeated. The competitive market for investment opportunities in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in small-cap companies. We compete with public and private funds, including other business development companies, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, specialty finance companies, hedge funds and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Some of our potential competitors are larger and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Participants in our industry compete on several factors, including price, flexibility in transaction structuring, customer service, reputation, market knowledge and speed in decision-making. We do not intend to seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are lower than the rates we offer. We may lose 24 Table of Contents investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may reduce our net investment income and increase our risk of loss. We are currently operating in a period of global capital markets disruption and instability. Since mid-2007, the global capital markets have experienced volatility and disruption, and the U.S. economy was in a recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during this period. Disruptions in the capital markets have resulted in increased spreads between the yields realized on higher risk securities and those realized on securities perceived to be risk-free, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. A prolonged period of market illiquidity or uncertainty regarding U.S. government spending levels, including negotiation of federal spending cuts, and implementation of global fiscal austerity measures may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable economic conditions, including future recessions, also could affect our investment valuations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us or our portfolio companies. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. We do not know how long the financial markets will continue to be affected by these events and cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the U.S. economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objectives, but we cannot assure you we will be successful. We intend to elect to be treated as a RIC. If we are unable to qualify as a RIC, we will be subject to corporate-level income tax. We intend to elect to be treated as a RIC under the Code. To qualify as a RIC under the Code and obtain RIC tax benefits, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. To the extent we use preferred stock or debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under preferred stock or loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax benefits. If we fail to make sufficient distributions, as a result of contractual restrictions in the Credit Facility, the $90.0 million unsecured term loan agreement with Citibank, N.A., as the sole lead arranger, and H.I.G. Bayside Loan Opportunity Fund II, L.P., or Loan Fund II, as guarantor, or otherwise, we may become subject to corporate-level income tax. In this annual report on Form 10-K, we refer to this unsecured term loan and the term loan agreement governing its terms, together, as the “Unsecured Term Loan.” To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because we anticipate that most of our investments will be in the debt of relatively illiquid small-cap private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. As a RIC, we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan, or PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment assets, and increases in loan balances as a result of PIK interest would be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. In addition, after the expiration of the reinvestment period under 25 Table of Contents the Credit Facility on September 27, 2014, we must use asset sales and repayment proceeds, if any (including any realized gains) to pay down any outstanding debt and certain other amounts prior to distributing cash from WhiteHorse Warehouse to us. Also, if we do not meet certain coverage tests under the Credit Facility or if an event of default and acceleration occurs under the Credit Facility, then income and capital gains which would otherwise be distributable by us to our stockholders could be diverted to pay down debt or other amounts due under the Credit Facility. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the minimum distribution requirement for RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Taxation as a RIC.” If our distributions exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, such excess distributions will be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of a stockholder’s tax basis in his or her shares and then as capital gain. Reducing a stockholder’s tax basis will have the effect of increasing his or her gain (or reducing loss) on a subsequent sale of shares. PIK interest payments we receive will increase our assets under management and, as a result, will increase the amount of base management fees payable by us to our investment adviser. Certain of our debt investments may contain provisions providing for the payment of PIK interest. Because PIK interest results in an increase in the size of the loan balance of the underlying loan, our receipt of PIK interest will increase our assets under management. As a result, because the base management fee that we pay to our investment adviser is based on the value of our consolidated gross assets, such PIK interest will increase the base management fee payable by us. In addition, any such increase in a loan balance due to the receipt of PIK interest will cause such loan to accrue interest on the higher loan balance, which will result in an increase in our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income and, as a result, an increase in incentive fees that are payable by us to our investment adviser. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional debt or equity capital. We have issued, and may in the future issue, debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted as a business development company to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test and would be restricted from further borrowings until such time as we regain compliance. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements existing at such time may require us to repay a portion of our indebtedness, which could require us to sell a portion of our assets to make such repayment. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, and preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might otherwise result in your receiving a premium price for your common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a business development company, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below current net asset value per share. We may, however, issue or sell our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share, or sell warrants, options or rights to acquire such common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale within 12 months prior to such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, 26 Table of Contents closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We also may conduct rights offerings at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and our stockholders may experience dilution. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create one or more wholly owned subsidiaries and sell and contribute a pool of loans to such subsidiaries. This could include the sale or other issuance of debt by such subsidiaries on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade-rated debt secured by such loan pools, and we would retain all or a portion of the equity in any such subsidiary. An inability to securitize part of our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and increase our earnings. Moreover, the successful securitization of part of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the loans we are not able to securitize will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and, correspondingly, decrease our operating flexibility. We intend to finance our investments with borrowed money, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. We have incurred leverage initially through the Credit Facility and the Unsecured Term Loan and, from time to time, intend to incur additional leverage to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act. In the future, we may also borrow from, and issue senior securities to, banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Holders of these senior securities have and will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such holders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. WhiteHorse Warehouse has pledged, and may in the future continue to pledge, all or substantially all of its assets and has granted, and may in the future grant, a security interest in all or a portion of its assets under the Credit Facility. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility, we must use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay amounts then due with respect to our debt and certain other amounts owing under the Credit Facility before applying such net proceeds to other uses, such as distributing them to our stockholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause our net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our equity stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to service our debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the management fee payable to our investment adviser. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we cannot incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of the credit market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our borrowings under the Credit Facility and the Unsecured Term Loan or obtain other credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the Credit Facility and the Unsecured Term Loan impose, and the terms of any other indebtedness that we incur in the future could impose, financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that may hinder our ability to finance additional investments or make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under the Code. 27 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to common stockholder(1) (8.4 )% (4.4 )% (0.5 )% 3.4 % 7.4 % (1) Assumes $373.2 million in total assets, $141.3 million in debt outstanding and $229.1 million in net assets as of December 31, 2012, and an average cost of funds of 2.85%, which is our weighted average borrowing cost as of December 31, 2012. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $141.3 million and the effective annual interest rate of 2.85% as of December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio must experience an annual return of at least 2.22% to cover annual interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates, and since we intend to use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. Since we plan to use debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. Conversely, in periods of falling interest rates, the probability that our loans and other investments in portfolio companies will be pre-paid increases. In such event, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to make new loans on the same terms, or at all. If we cannot make new loans on terms that are the same or better than the investments that are repaid, then our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We expect that our investments will be financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our ability to engage in hedging transactions may be adversely affected by rules recently adopted by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee Hurdle Rate and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our investment adviser with respect to Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. We are subject to risks associated with the Unsecured Term Loan. On November 8, 2012, we entered into the Unsecured Term Loan and borrowed $90.0 million under that loan. As a result of the Unsecured Term Loan, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below. We may experience an event of default and acceleration under the Unsecured Term Loan, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There are several circumstances under which an event of default may occur under the Unsecured Term Loan, such as our failure to pay the principal of, or interest on, the Unsecured Term Loan, certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization occur or a payment default under certain of our other debt obligations. 28 Table of Contents Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender under the Unsecured Term Loan may exercise customary remedies, including declaring all amounts due and payable under the Unsecured Term Loan. Any of these developments would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with the Credit Facility. On September 27, 2012, WhiteHorse Warehouse, our wholly owned subsidiary, entered into the Credit Facility. All amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility are scheduled to mature on September 27, 2020. As a result of the Credit Facility, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below. Our interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse are subordinated. We own 100% of the equity interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse and have agreed under the risk retention letter to continue to own all of such equity interests for the life of the Credit Facility. We consolidate the financial statements of WhiteHorse Warehouse in our consolidated financial statements and treat the indebtedness of WhiteHorse Warehouse as our leverage for purposes of compliance with the 1940 Act. Our equity interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse are subordinated in priority of payment to its obligations to its debt holders and its service providers. These persons have claims superior to our claims as equity interest holder in any liquidation of WhiteHorse Warehouse. We may not receive cash from WhiteHorse Warehouse. We expect to receive cash from WhiteHorse Warehouse as distributions on our equity interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse. In addition, WhiteHorse Warehouse may make payments to us in our capacity as its collateral manager. We will receive distributions on our equity interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse only to the extent cash is available and permitted to be distributed under the Credit Facility. WhiteHorse Warehouse may not receive sufficient cash to make equity distributions, in which case we would not be entitled to receive equity distributions from WhiteHorse Warehouse and, as a result, we may be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. Limitations under the Credit Facility will impair our ability to sell investments owned by WhiteHorse Warehouse, and we may not be able to sell such investments. These limitations include prior satisfaction of certain coverage tests and collateral quality tests, the minimum price at which we may sell such investments and the amount of investments we may sell within a certain timeframe. Under the Credit Facility, there are two coverage tests that WhiteHorse Warehouse must meet on specified compliance dates in order to permit WhiteHorse Warehouse to make new borrowings under the Credit Facility and to make equity distributions to us in the ordinary course—an interest coverage test and an overcollateralization test. To meet the interest coverage test, WhiteHorse Warehouse must receive interest payments on the loans it holds in an aggregate amount equal to greater than 200% of the interest payable to the Lender plus certain capped fees, expenses and indemnities. The overcollateralization test compares, at any given time, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility to (1) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Lender advances, (2) the excess of certain unfunded commitments on loans over the amount reserved with respect to such loans and (3) the amount due for any unsettled purchases of loans at such time. To meet the overcollateralization test, this ratio must exceed a minimum specified amount set forth in the Credit Facility and related documentation. If either of these coverage tests is not met on a compliance date, then WhiteHorse Warehouse must apply cash available under the priority of payments in the Credit Facility to pay down principal under the Credit Facility and the collateral manager may then make deposits into an unfunded commitment reserve account until such coverage tests are satisfied. If we fail to receive cash from WhiteHorse Warehouse, we may be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. Limitations under the Credit Facility will impair our ability to sell investments owned by WhiteHorse Warehouse, and we may not be able to sell such investments. 29 Table of Contents WhiteHorse Warehouse may experience an event of default and acceleration under the Credit Facility, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There are several circumstances under which an event of default may occur under the Credit Facility, some of which relate to the performance of the assets of WhiteHorse Warehouse or the performance by WhiteHorse Warehouse of its obligations under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility also includes certain customary events of default, such as (1) a breach of representations, warranties or covenants by us as collateral manager or by WhiteHorse Warehouse under the Credit Facility or failure on our part, or on the part of WhiteHorse Warehouse, to perform such obligations, (2) if we become insolvent, (3) if neither we, an affiliate approved by the required lenders under the Credit Facility or any successor collateral manager appointed in accordance with the collateral management agreement is collateral manager, (4) if certain change of control events occur with respect to us or WhiteHorse Warehouse, as further described in this annual report on Form 10-K, or (5) if we, one of our executive officers or certain of our affiliates commits a specified bad act. The occurrence of an event of default could, among other consequences, (a) prevent us from making distributions to our stockholders sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all, (b) terminate the reinvestment period under the Credit Facility, if it is then in effect, and (c) permit the facility agent to assume the management of WhiteHorse Warehouse’s portfolio and to direct the liquidation of its assets. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Lender may exercise customary remedies, including declaring all amounts due and payable under the Credit Facility, blocking distributions in respect of the equity of WhiteHorse Warehouse or selling assets, including selling assets at a lower price than what might otherwise be achieved in an orderly liquidation. The ability of WhiteHorse Warehouse to purchase and sell investments is limited. The Credit Facility restricts the collateral manager’s ability to purchase and sell investments for WhiteHorse Warehouse. As a result, the collateral manager may be unable to purchase or sell investments or take other actions that might be in our best interests, which could impair our performance and result in losses. During the reinvestment period, WhiteHorse Warehouse will have the ability to borrow funds for the acquisition of investments that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Facility. Such funds may be repaid and re-borrowed during the reinvestment period, subject to compliance with the terms of the Credit Facility. We may lose the ability to manage WhiteHorse Warehouse even if we continue to own its equity. If an event of default occurs under the Credit Facility or if we resign or are terminated for cause as collateral manager under the collateral management agreement, we may no longer manage the WhiteHorse Warehouse portfolio investments even though we are required to continue to own the equity interests in WhiteHorse Warehouse. If an agent for the Lender or the successor collateral manager does not manage WhiteHorse Warehouse’s portfolio in the same manner that we would have, our performance may not meet expectations and result in losses. If the Lender under the Credit Facility is still a commercial paper conduit, it may not be obligated to advance amounts to us under the Credit Facility. For so long as the Lender under the Credit Facility is a commercial paper conduit, the Lender is not obligated to advance amounts under the Credit Facility to us unless the following circumstances occur: (1) if the Lender has funds that may be used to fund advances under the Credit Facility and those funds are not required to repay commercial paper notes or other short term funding backing the commercial paper notes issued by a limited purpose entity providing funding or financing to the Lender when due and (2) after giving effect to any advance made under the Credit Facility, the Lender (or limited purpose entity that finances the lender) could issue commercial paper to refinance all of the Lender’s outstanding commercial paper (assuming it has all matured at such time) or all of the commercial paper of the Lender (or the limited purpose entity that finances such Lender) is paid in full. 30 Table of Contents There are significant potential conflicts of interest related to the investment committee, our investment adviser and its affiliates, including their obligations to other clients, that could affect our investment returns. As a result of our arrangements with H.I.G. Capital, our investment adviser and the investment committee, there may be times when H.I.G. Capital, our investment adviser or such persons have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest. The members of the investment committee serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates. Similarly, our investment adviser or its affiliates may have other clients with similar, different or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the members of the investment committee have, and will continue to have, management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Our investment objectives may overlap with the investment objectives of such affiliated investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by or affiliated with our investment adviser. Our investment adviser will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with its allocation policy. However, we can offer no assurance that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our ordinary income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth, and such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We will need additional capital to fund growth in our investment portfolio once we have fully invested the proceeds of the IPO and Concurrent Private Placement. In addition to the Credit Facility and the Unsecured Term Loan, we may issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain additional capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We will be required to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. If we fail to obtain additional capital to fund new investments, this could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, as a business development company, we are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200% of total assets to total borrowings, which may restrict our ability to borrow in certain circumstances. The investment committee, our investment adviser or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. Principals of our investment adviser and its affiliates and members of the investment committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. Although we expect the majority of our investments to be made in non-public securities, if we obtain material non-public information with respect to public companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for our investment adviser that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders and may induce our investment adviser to make speculative investments. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to our investment adviser. The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser may create an incentive for our investment adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be 31 Table of Contents the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The management fee is based on our consolidated gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because the management fee is based on our consolidated gross assets, our investment adviser will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. The use of leverage will increase the likelihood of default, which disfavors the holders of our common stock. Under the incentive fee structure, our investment adviser may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because our investment adviser determines when a holding is sold, our investment adviser controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how our investment adviser addresses these and other conflicts of interest associated with its management services and compensation. While they are not expected to review or approve each investment or realization, our independent directors will periodically review our investment adviser’s services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether such fees and our expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, our investment adviser or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. In addition, under the terms of the Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism, the incentive fees earned by our investment adviser will depend, in part, upon the timing of capital gains or losses in our investment portfolio, as well as the timing of our recognition of income. Depending on the circumstances, there may be a lag of as long as 12 fiscal quarters between the occurrence of an event giving rise to an obligation to pay incentive fees to the investment adviser and the payment of such incentive fees. Therefore, investors who acquire our shares of common stock may pay indirectly to our investment adviser incentive fees in respect of income or capital gains that were received by or paid to us prior to such investor becoming a stockholder. As a result, such investors may not participate in the income or capital gains giving rise to such indirect expense. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no Hurdle Rate applicable to the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our investment adviser may seek to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. Many of our portfolio investments are expected to be made in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these securities in good faith as described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from our investment adviser will provide our board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, including Messrs. John Bolduc and Jay Carvell, have an indirect pecuniary interest in our investment adviser. The participation of our investment adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in our investment adviser by certain members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the management fee paid to our investment adviser is based, in part, on our consolidated gross assets. Conflicts related to other arrangements with our investment adviser or its affiliates. We have entered into a License Agreement with an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital under which we have been granted a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “WhiteHorse.” In addition, we will pay to WhiteHorse Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by WhiteHorse Administration in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer, chief operating officer and chief compliance officer along with their respective staffs. This will create conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. 32 Table of Contents The Investment Advisory Agreement with WhiteHorse Advisers and the Administration Agreement with WhiteHorse Administration were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to our investment adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our investment adviser, our administrator and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our stockholders. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, or entering into certain “joint” transactions (which could include investments in the same portfolio company) with, such affiliates, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. Our investment adviser and its affiliates, including persons that control, are controlled by or are under common control with, us or our investment adviser, are also considered to be our affiliates under the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, or entering into “joint” transactions with, such affiliates without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, exemptive relief from the SEC. We may, however, invest alongside our investment adviser’s and its affiliates’ other clients in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. For example, we may invest alongside such accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the staff of the SEC permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that our investment adviser, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also invest alongside our investment adviser’s other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and the allocation policy of H.I.G. Capital and our investment adviser. Under this allocation policy, a fixed calculation, based on the type of investment, will be applied to determine the amount of each opportunity to be allocated to us. This allocation policy will be periodically reviewed by our investment adviser and approved by our independent directors. We expect that these determinations will be made similarly for other accounts sponsored or managed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. If sufficient securities or loan amounts are available to satisfy our and each such account’s proposed demand, we expect that the opportunity will be allocated in accordance with our investment adviser’s pre-transaction determination. Where there is an insufficient amount of an investment opportunity to satisfy us and other accounts sponsored or managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates, the allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and such other accounts will generally be made pro rata, based on the amount that each such party would have invested if sufficient securities or loan amounts were available. However, we can offer no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. In situations where co-investment with other accounts managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, H.I.G. Capital and our investment adviser will need to decide which client will proceed with the investment. Our investment adviser’s allocation policy provides, in such circumstances, for investments to be allocated on a random or rotational basis to assure that all clients have fair and equitable access to such investment opportunities. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which a fund managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to participate in follow-on investments or to sell or otherwise exit investments in which investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles managed by H.I.G. Capital also has an investment may be restricted. We may be considered affiliates with respect to certain of our portfolio companies because certain investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles managed by H.I.G. Capital also hold interests in these portfolio companies and, as such, these interests may be considered a joint enterprise under the 1940 Act. To the extent that our interests in these portfolio companies may need to be restructured in the future or to the extent that we choose to participate in follow-on investments or to exit certain of these transactions, our ability to do so will be limited. We have submitted an application for exemptive relief in relation to certain joint transactions; however, there is no assurance that we will obtain relief that would permit us to negotiate future restructurings or other transactions that may be considered a joint enterprise. Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio investments will take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. As discussed in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies,” most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments requires significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. Consensus pricing is a methodology for the determination of fair value based on quotations from market makers. These quotations include a disclaimer that the market maker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of one or more independent service providers to periodically review the valuation of these securities. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. In addition, the determination of fair value and thus the amount of unrealized losses we may incur in any year is, to a degree, subjective, in that it is based on unobservable inputs and certain assumptions. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as a net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business, and price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. . We will generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these investments will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need 34 Table of Contents arises. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors under our valuation policy and process. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments: • a comparison of the portfolio company’s securities to publicly traded securities; • the enterprise value of a portfolio company; • the nature and realizable value of any collateral; • the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings; • the markets in which the portfolio company does business; and • changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company or if an investment is held by one of our subsidiaries and is subject to contractual limitations on sale, such as the limitations on transfer of assets under certain circumstances under the Credit Facility. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to our Business and Structure—We are subject to risks associated with the Credit Facility.” We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the senior securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of the recognition of, realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any prior period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies will be subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure proceedings and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into additional jurisdictions, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we or our portfolio companies are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, became law. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations that will continue for several years following its enactment. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. While the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or 35 Table of Contents pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose any licenses that we then hold for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of our investment adviser to other types of investments in which our investment adviser may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Our board of directors may change our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects of any such changes may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Risks Related to our Investments Our investments may be risky, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. We invest primarily in (1) first lien senior secured loans, (2) second lien senior secured loans, (3) “one-stop” senior secured or “unitranche” loans, (4) subordinated or mezzanine loans and (5) to a lesser extent, selected equity co-investments, in each case in small-cap companies in North America. The portfolio companies in which we invest usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have sufficient assets to repay its obligation to us in full, or at all. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We have invested, and expect in the future to invest, in securities that are rated below investment grade by rating agencies or that may be rated below investment grade if they were so rated. Below investment grade securities, which are often referred to as “junk” bonds, are viewed as speculative investments because of concerns with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Secured Loans. When we extend first lien senior secured, second lien senior secured and unitranche loans, we will generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. We expect this security interest to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in the case of first lien loans, our lien may be subordinated to claims of other creditors and, in the case of second lien loans, our lien will be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. 36 Table of Contents The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that benefit from first-priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first-priority liens: • the ability to commence enforcement proceedings against the collateral; • the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; • the approval of amendments to collateral documents; • releases of liens on the collateral; and • waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. Mezzanine Loans; Unsecured Loans. Our mezzanine investments are generally subordinated to senior loans and are generally unsecured. This may result in greater risk and volatility or a loss of principal. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income as described above under “Risk Factors—We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.” Since, generally, we will not receive any substantial repayments of principal prior to the maturity of our mezzanine debt investments, such investments are riskier than amortizing loans. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of collateral securing other loans of a portfolio company would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. Equity Investments. We may make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in first lien, second lien, unitranche or mezzanine loans, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We are subject to risks associated with small-cap companies. Investing in small-cap companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; 37 Table of Contents • generally little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies; • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and, therefore, we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which subjects us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code and certain contractual diversification requirements imposed on us under the Credit Facility or other agreements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments are and could be in the future concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies and industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. We may hold the debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by an issuer may adversely and permanently affect the issuer. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of our investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until a plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial, eroding the value of any recovery by holders of other securities of the bankrupt entity. Depending on the facts and circumstances of our investments and the extent of our involvement in the management of a portfolio company, upon the bankruptcy of a portfolio company, a bankruptcy court may recharacterize our debt investments as equity interests and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could occur even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt. 38 Table of Contents Economic recessions or downturns could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loans and increase our costs, which, in turn, could increase our non-performing assets, decrease the value of our portfolio, reduce our volume of new loans and otherwise harm our operating results. The U.S. economy and that of most other countries have recently been in a recessionary period. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from making new investments, increase credit losses and harm our operating results, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to risks associated with syndicated loans. From time to time, we may acquire interests in syndicated loans. Under the documentation for such loans, a financial institution or other entity typically is designated as the administrative agent and/or collateral agent. This agent is granted a lien on any collateral on behalf of the other lenders and distributes payments on the indebtedness as they are received. The agent is the party responsible for administering and enforcing the loan and generally may take actions only in accordance with the instructions of a majority or two-thirds in commitments and/or principal amount of the associated indebtedness. In most cases, we do not expect to hold a sufficient amount of the indebtedness to be able to compel any actions by the agent. For example, in many cases, our investments may represent less than the amount of associated indebtedness sufficient to compel such actions or represent subordinated debt that is precluded from acting and, consequently, we would only be able to direct such actions if instructions from us were made in conjunction with other holders of associated indebtedness that together with us compose the requisite percentage of the related indebtedness then entitled to take action. Conversely, if holders of the required amount of the associated indebtedness (not including amounts held by us) desire to take certain actions, such actions may be taken even if we did not support such actions. Furthermore, if an investment is subordinated to one or more senior loans made to the applicable obligor, our ability to exercise such rights may be subordinated to the exercise of such rights by the senior lenders. Accordingly, we may be precluded from directing such actions unless we act together with other holders of the indebtedness. If we are unable to direct such actions, we cannot assure you that the actions taken will be in our best interests. If an investment is a syndicated revolving loan or delayed drawdown loan, other lenders may fail to satisfy their full contractual funding commitments for such loan, which could create a breach of contract, result in a lawsuit by the obligor against the lenders and adversely affect the fair market value of our investment. There is a risk that an agent in respect of one of our loans may become bankrupt or insolvent. Such an event would delay, and possibly impair, any enforcement actions undertaken by holders of the associated indebtedness, including attempts to realize upon the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and/or direct the agent to take actions against the related obligor or the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and actions to realize on proceeds of payments made by obligors that are in the possession or control of any other financial institution. In addition, we may be unable to remove the agent in circumstances in which removal would be in our best interests. Moreover, agented loans typically allow for the agent to resign with certain advance notice. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio, and our ability to make follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies may be restricted. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: • increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; • exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or • attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. 39 Table of Contents We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources, the limitations of the 1940 Act, the requirements associated with our status as a RIC and contractual requirements imposed on us under the Credit Facility or otherwise. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our exposure to the portfolio company, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements, our contractual requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Because we will generally not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we will not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, we do not currently anticipate taking controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. In addition, we may not be in a position to control management of any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that management of a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we will typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with such actions, and we may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. A payment default on a loan to a portfolio company or a default leading to the acceleration of debt of a portfolio company could cause the loan to such portfolio company held by us to become, or to be deemed to be, a defaulted obligation under the Credit Facility. This, in turn, could result in a coverage test under the Credit Facility not being met and the diversion of distributions of assets held by WhiteHorse Warehouse to pay down debt under the Credit Facility rather than to make distributions. Such a portfolio company default could also lead to an event of default and acceleration under the Credit Facility and liquidation by the related lender of the assets securing the Credit Facility. Any such diversion of cash flow or any event of default could result in our being unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investment adviser’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our investment adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our investment adviser does not assume any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow our investment adviser’s advice or recommendations. Our investment adviser maintains a contractual, as opposed to a fiduciary, relationship with us. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, our investment adviser, its officers, managers, agents, employees, controlling persons, members and any other person or entity affiliated with the investment adviser is not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of our investment adviser’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross 40 Table of Contents negligence in the performance of its duties or by reason of the reckless disregard of its duties and obligations, the investment adviser and its officers, managers, agents, employees, controlling persons, members and any other person or entity affiliated with the investment adviser are entitled to indemnification from us for any damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and amounts reasonably paid in settlement) arising from the investment adviser’s performance of its duties and obligations under the Investment Advisory Agreement or otherwise as our investment adviser. These protections may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our investment adviser may be paid incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss, and we cannot recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. Our investment adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income, subject to the Hurdle Rate, catch-up and Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism. Our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss. In addition, if we pay the capital gains portion of the incentive fee and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which may reduce our yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. The loans in our investment portfolio may be prepaid at any time. It is not clear at this time when each loan may be prepaid. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change, we do not know when, and if, prepayment may be possible for each portfolio company. In some cases, the prepayment of a loan may reduce our achievable yield if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. We expect that a significant portion of our investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in a private company, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may borrow under a credit facility in currencies selected to minimize our foreign currency exposure or, to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws, use instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions caused by these risks does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline for other reasons. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Our ability to engage in hedging transactions may also be adversely affected by recent rules adopted by the CFTC. While we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall 41 Table of Contents investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Credit Facility could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, contains provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers. These provisions and others also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, the application of which is subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. Our board of directors may adopt a resolution exempting from Section 203 of the DGCL any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board of directors, including approval by a majority of our directors who are not “interested persons.” If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our board does not approve a business combination, Section 203 of the DGCL may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our preferred stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock and to amend our certificate of incorporation, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, if we issue preferred stock, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred stockholders having separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights, and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. If we or one of our affiliates approved by the Lender is no longer the collateral manager under the Credit Facility or if certain change of control events occur, then an event of default will occur under the Credit Facility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A change of control under the Credit Facility occurs if (1) WhiteHorse Warehouse ceases to be our wholly owned subsidiary, (2) Messrs. Anthony Tamer and Sami Mnaymneh, together, cease to own beneficially the power to vote a majority of the equity interests having direct or indirect ordinary voting power in our investment adviser and certain of its affiliates or (3) H.I.G. Capital Management, Inc., either directly or through its wholly owned subsidiaries or certain affiliates, ceases to provide all or substantially all of the personnel, investment committee and other services necessary for us to perform our duties as collateral manager under the Credit Facility documents. The occurrence of an event of default could result in us being unable to make distributions to our stockholders sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all, terminates the reinvestment period if then in effect, permits the facility agent on behalf of the Lender to take over management of WhiteHorse Warehouse’s portfolio and to direct the liquidation of its assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents WhiteHorse Advisers can resign as our investment adviser on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flows. WhiteHorse Advisers has the right under the Investment Advisory Agreement to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objectives may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. WhiteHorse Administration can resign from its role as our administrator under the Administration Agreement, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flows. WhiteHorse Administration has the right under the Administration Agreement to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If WhiteHorse Administration resigns, we may not be able to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by WhiteHorse Administration. Even if we are able to retain a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our operations may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Investments in securities of foreign companies, if any, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. We may make investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, any investments that we make that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. To the extent permitted under the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws, we may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules implemented by the SEC. 43 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company,” and we do not know if such status will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently are, and following the completion of this offering expect to remain, an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, signed into law on April 5, 2012 until the earliest of: • the last day of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2017; • the year in which our total annual gross revenues first exceed $1 billion; • the date on which we have, during the prior three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and • the last day of a fiscal year in which we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more, computed at the end of each fiscal year as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) have been an Exchange Act reporting company for at least one year (and filed at least one annual report under the Exchange Act). Although we are still evaluating the JOBS Act, we currently intend to take advantage of some or all of the reduced regulatory and disclosure requirements permitted by the JOBS Act and, as a result, some investors may consider our common stock less attractive, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. For example, while we are an emerging growth company, we will take advantage of exemption from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the extended transition period available to emerging growth companies to comply with “new or revised accounting standards” until those standards are applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies. This may increase the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, we are required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and related rules and regulations of the SEC, and under the JOBS Act. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses in the near term that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also will result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of H.I.G. Capital, to which we have access through our administrator, WhiteHorse Administration. In addition, certain of these systems are provided to H.I.G. Capital by third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption of such systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any such third-party service provider, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 44 Table of Contents Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock There is a risk that investors may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure investors that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Also, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. If more stockholders opt to receive cash dividends and other distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to liquidate some of our investments and raise cash in order to make distribution payments. In addition, after the reinvestment period under the Credit Facility, asset sales proceeds, if any (including any realized gains), must be used to pay down any outstanding debt and certain other amounts prior to distributing cash from WhiteHorse Warehouse to us. Also, if certain coverage tests are not met under the Credit Facility or if an event of default and acceleration occurs under the Credit Facility, then income and capital gains which would otherwise be distributable by us to our stockholders will be diverted to pay down debt or other amounts due under the Credit Facility. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable business development company regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure investors that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. Investing in our shares may involve an above average degree of risk and is intended for long-term investors. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives and strategies may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive. Therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with low risk tolerance. In addition, our common stock is intended for long-term investors and should not be treated as a trading vehicle. Our shares may trade at a price that is less than the offering price. This risk may be greater for investors who sell their shares in a relatively short period of time after completion of an offering. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; • any loss of RIC or business development company status; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • the inability of our investment adviser to employ additional experienced investment professionals or the departure of any of our investment adviser’s key personnel, including Messrs. Mnaymneh and Tamer; 45 Table of Contents • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source or an event of default under a material financing contract. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. Additionally, should we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, we may pay certain of the costs associated with the registration of the such shares of common stock sold by us pursuant to a registration rights agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 