D. Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business If the trading price of our ordinary shares fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, we would face possible delisting, which would result in a limited public market for our shares and make obtaining future debt or equity financing more difficult for us. Companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market, or NASDAQ, are subject to delisting for, among other things, failure to maintain a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. On January 29, 2013, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that for the 30 consecutive business days between December 12, 2012 and January 25, 2013, the bid price of our ordinary shares closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had an initial grace period of 180 calendar days, or until July 29, 2013, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On February 20, 2013, we received a notification from NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement after maintaining a closing bid price equal to or in excess of $1.00 for ten consecutive business days, from February 5, 2013 to February 19, 2013. As a result, the matter of our noncompliance with the minimum bid price requirement had been closed. We cannot be sure that our share price will continue to comply with the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market in the future. If our shares lose their status on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, our shares would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our shares were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our shares could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our shares are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our shares, further limiting the liquidity of our shares. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our shares. Such delisting from The NASDAQ Global Select Market and continued or further declines in our share price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to shareholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. 3 Unfavorable economic conditions may affect the level of technology spending by our customers which could cause the demand for our products and services to decrease. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depend on the overall demand for software and display technology products and internet related services. Our business depends on the overall economy and the economic and business conditions within our respective product and service sectors. The current stock market decline and the global economic slowdown may affect the demand for our software products and related services and decrease technology spending of many of our customers and potential customers. These events could have a material effect on us in the future, including, without limitation, on our future revenue and earnings. Our periodic operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, which may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our revenues and operating results can vary significantly from filing period to filing period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as variations in the volume of business from customers resulting from changes in our customers’ operations, the business decisions of our customers regarding the use of our products and services, delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities and infrastructure, changes to our pricing structure or that of our competitors, inaccurate estimates of resources and time required to complete ongoing projects and currency fluctuations. As many of our employees take long vacations during the Chinese New Year in the first quarter, our revenues in that quarter are relatively low compared to the other quarters. Moreover, our results may vary depending on our customers’ business needs and spending patterns. Due to the annual budget cycles of most of our customers, we may not be able to estimate accurately the demand for our products and services beyond the immediate calendar year, which could adversely affect our business planning and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the volume of work performed for specific customers is likely to vary from year to year. Thus, a major customer in one year may not provide the same amount or percentage of our revenues in any subsequent year. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. If our operating results for any filing period fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, the trading price of our ordinary shares may decline. We face risks once a business is acquired and the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations, either of which may adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks when we acquire other businesses. These risks include: difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, tax, regulatory and accounting issues, and inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs. Acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or, as a result, key customers, and our strategic focus may change. As a result, we may not realize the benefits we anticipated. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on the investment in these acquisitions, incur transaction costs and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. If we are unable to raise additional financing or identify suitable merger or acquisition targets, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis. 4 Our long-term business plan includes the identification of suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance overall productivity and to benefit from economies of scale. Due to the recent global financial crisis, we may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. To raise funds, we may need to issue new equities or bonds which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders, and additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities or contain covenants that would restrict our operations and strategy. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. We also may not be able to identify merger or acquisition targets or, after a merger or acquisition, may not be able to integrate the target’s business or operations successfully with ours. Such failure to execute our long-term business plan likely will negatively impact our results of operations. We generally do not have exclusive or long-term agreements with our customers and we may lose their engagement if they are not satisfied with our products and services or for other reasons. We generally do not have exclusive or long-term agreements with our customers. As a result, we must rely on the quality of our products and services, industry reputation and favorable pricing to attract and retain customers. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our relationships with current and/or future customers. Our customers may elect to terminate their relationships with us if they are not satisfied with our services. If a substantial number of our customers choose not to continue to purchase products and services time from us, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to develop competitive new products and service offerings our future results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to utilize our technology in a way that will allow us to offer new types of software applications and services to a broader client base. We will be required to make investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new software applications and internet related service offerings, enhance our existing software applications and internet related service offerings and achieve market acceptance of our software applications and internet service offerings. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new software applications and internet service offerings. Our development-stage software applications may not be successfully completed or, if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new software applications, and enhance existing software applications, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Development schedules for software applications are difficult to predict. The timely availability of new applications and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. A delay in the development of new applications could have a significant impact on its results of operations. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in our industry, demand for our products and services could decline which would adversely affect our revenue. Our industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and changing customer demands. These conditions require continuous expenditures on product research and development to enhance existing products, create new products and avoid product obsolescence. We believe that the timely development of new products and continuing enhancements to existing products is essential to maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. Our future success depends in part upon customer and market acceptance of our products and initiatives, which is uncertain. Any failure to achieve increased acceptance of these and other new product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our software products may contain defects or errors, which could decrease sales, injure our reputation or delay shipments of our products. The software products that we develop are complex and must meet the stringent technical requirements of our customers. In addition, to keep pace with the rapid technological change in our industry and to avoid the obsolescence of our software products, we must quickly develop new products and enhancements to existing products. Because of this complexity and rapid development cycle, we cannot assure that our software products are free of errors, especially in newly released software products and new versions of existing software products. If our software is not free of errors, this could result in litigation, fewer sales, increased product returns, damage to our reputation and an increase in service and warranty costs, which would adversely affect our business. 5 Our technology may become obsolete which could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services. If our technology, products and services become obsolete, our business operations would be materially adversely affected. The market in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, introductions of new products, and changes in customer demands that can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our current products will require continuous upgrading or our technology will become obsolete. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, database, and networking platforms and by developing and introducing enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards, and changing customer requirements. Research and development expenses were $2,915,641, $4,951,166 and $4,483,754 for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We face the risk of systems interruptions and capacity constraints, possibly resulting in adverse publicity, revenue loss and erosion of customer trust. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience temporary service interruptions for a variety of reasons, including telecommunications or power failures, fire, water damage, vandalism, computer bugs or viruses or hardware failures. We may not be able to correct a problem in a timely manner. Any service interruption that results in the unavailability of our system or reduces its capacity could result in real or perceived public safety issues that may affect customer confidence in our services and result in negative publicity that could cause us to lose customer accounts or fail to obtain new accounts. Any inability to scale our systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer service, or impaired quality and speed of transaction processing. We are not certain that we will be able to project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services to permit us to upgrade and expand our systems effectively or to integrate smoothly any newly developed or purchased modules with our existing systems. If we are not able to adequately secure and protect our patent, trademark and other proprietary rights our business may be materially affected. Under our Amended and Restated Management Services Agreement, or the MSA, among our subsidiary IST, our variable interest entity, iASPEC, and Mr. Jiang Huai Lin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, we license 65 copyrighted software applications from iASPEC on an exclusive basis. To protect the intellectual property underlying these applications and our other intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. We also rely on non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Some of these technologies, other than the iASPEC copyrighted software applications, are very important to our business and are not protected by copyrights or patents. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer our products, or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Further, third parties could challenge the scope or enforceability of our copyrights. In certain foreign countries, including China where we operate, the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any misappropriation of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we cannot assure you that the measures we take to protect our proprietary rights are adequate. Claims that we infringe the proprietary rights of third parties could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that our products or services infringe their proprietary rights. Any infringement claim, with or without merit, would be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert our management’s attention from our core business. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may have to pay significant damages, incur substantial legal fees, develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into license agreements that require us to pay substantial royalties and that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and shareholder value harmed if we lose any of these customers. 6 Historically, a significant portion of our revenues have been derived from a limited number of customers. For each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 16%, 17% and 17%, respectively of our revenues were derived from our five largest customers. The loss of any of these significant customers would adversely affect our revenues and shareholder value. The digital security, geographic, and hospital information systems markets in China are highly competitive, and we may fail to compete successfully, thereby resulting in loss of customers and decline in our revenues. The digital security, geographic, and hospital information systems markets in China are intensely competitive and are characterized by frequent technological changes, evolving industry standards and changing customer demands. We have competition from multiple domestic competitors in each segment. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and inability to gain or hold market share. We have limited insurance coverage for our operations in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. We have determined that the risks of disruption or liability from our business, the loss or damage to our property, including our facilities, equipment and office furniture, the cost of insuring for these risks, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption, litigation or property insurance coverage for our operations in China except for insurance on some company owned vehicles. Any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to property, or litigation or business disruption may result in the incurrence of substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Jiang Huai Lin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel K. Lee, our Chief Financial Officer, Zhi Qiang Zhao, our Chief Operating Officer, Guang Yuan Zong, our Chief Marketing Officer, Zhi Yao Yu, our Chief Technology Officer and Mr. Zhi Shan Liang, our Chief Product Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. Companies that file reports with the SEC, including us, are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404. SOX 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting and annual reports on Form 10-K or Form 20-F filed under the Exchange Act to contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. Separately, under SOX 404, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, public companies that are large accelerated or accelerated filers must include in their annual reports on Form 10-K or Form 20-F an attestation report of their regular auditors attesting to and reporting on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Non-accelerated filers and smaller reporting companies are not required to include an attestation report of their auditors in annual reports. A report of our management is included under Item 15 “Controls and Procedures” of this report. We are a non-accelerated filer and, consequently, are not required to include an attestation report of our auditor in this annual report. Although our management believes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013, we can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby and that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors in the future, when required. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. 7 Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. After-tax profits/losses with respect to the payment of dividends out of accumulated profits and the annual appropriation of after-tax profits as calculated pursuant to PRC accounting standards and regulations do not result in significant differences as compared to after-tax earnings as presented in our financial statements. However, there are certain differences between PRC accounting standards and regulations and U.S. GAAP, arising from different treatment of items such as amortization of intangible assets and change in fair value of contingent consideration rising from business combinations. Risks Relating to our Commercial Relationship with iASPEC Mr. Lin’s association with iASPEC could pose a conflict of interest which may result in iASPEC decisions that are adverse to our business. Mr. Jiang Huai Lin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the beneficial owner of 51.26% of our outstanding ordinary shares beneficially owns 100% of the equity interests in iASPEC, from whom we derived 42.1%, 44.6% and 47.1% of our revenue in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, pursuant to existing commercial arrangements. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time and these conflicts may result in management decisions that could negatively affect our operations and potentially result in the loss of opportunities. If iASPEC or its shareholders violate our contractual arrangements with it, our business could be disrupted and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights which may be time consuming and expensive. Our operations are currently dependent upon our commercial relationship with iASPEC. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we derived 42.1%, 44.6% and 47.1% of our revenues, respectively, from the provision of services to iASPEC customers. A significant portion of these revenues have not yet been collected. Amounts owed by iASPEC under the amended MSA for each quarter will be due and payable no later than the last day of the month following the end of each such quarter. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership, if iASPEC or its shareholders are unwilling or unable to perform their obligations under our commercial arrangements with it, including payment of revenues under the MSA as they become due each quarter, we will not be able to conduct our operations in the manner currently planned. In addition, iASPEC may seek to renew these agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control iASPEC, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them. If we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not be able to operate or expand, and our operating expenses may significantly increase. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system may impede our ability to enforce the commercial agreements that we have entered into with iASPEC or any arbitral award thereunder and any inability to enforce these agreements could materially and adversely affect our business and operation. While disputes under the amended MSA and the option agreement with iASPEC are subject to binding arbitration before the Shenzhen Branch of the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission, or CIETAC, in accordance with CIETAC Arbitration Rules, the agreements are governed by PRC law and an arbitration award may be challenged in accordance with PRC law. For example, a claim that the enforcement of an award in our favor will be detrimental to the public interest, or that an issue does not fall within the scope of the arbitration would require us to engage in administrative and judicial proceedings to defend an award. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes and unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent. As a result, China’s administrative and judicial authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and judicial proceedings and the level of legal protection available than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the terms of the MSA, the option agreement and the other contracts that we may enter into with iASPEC. Any inability to enforce the MSA and option agreement or an award thereunder could materially and adversely affect our business and operation. 8 If iASPEC fails to comply with the confidentiality requirements of certain of its customer contracts, then iASPEC could be subject to sanctions and could lose its business license which in turn would significantly disrupt or shut down our operations. The business and operations of iASPEC, the owner and licensor to us of the copyrighted software applications and other intellectual property that are essential to the operation of our business, is subject to Chinese contractual obligations and laws and regulations that restrict its use of security information and other information that it obtains from its customers in the public security sector. For some of its contracts with government agencies, iASPEC has agreed to keep confidential all technical and commercial secrets obtained during the performance of services under the contract. iASPEC or its shareholders could violate these contractual obligations and laws and regulations by inadvertently or intentionally disclosing confidential information or by otherwise failing to operate its business in a manner that complies with these contractual and legal obligations. A violation of these agreements could result in the significant disruption or shut down of our business or adversely affect our reputation in the market. If iASPEC or its shareholders violate these contractual and legal obligations, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights under our contractual obligations with iASPEC. This litigation could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and the incurrence of substantial costs. All of the share capital of iASPEC is held by our major shareholder, who may cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that is adverse to us. Our major shareholder, Mr. Jiang Huai Lin, owns and controls iASPEC. As a result, Mr. Lin may be able to cause our commercial arrangements with iASPEC to be amended in a manner that will be adverse to our company, or may be able to cause these agreements not to be renewed, even if their renewal would be beneficial for us. Although we have entered into an agreement that prevents the amendment of these agreements without the approval of the members of our Board other than Mr. Lin, we can provide no assurances that these agreements will not be amended in the future to contain terms that might differ from the terms that are currently in place. These differences may be adverse to our interests. Our arrangements with iASPEC and its shareholders may be subject to a transfer pricing adjustment by the PRC tax authorities which could have an adverse effect on our income and expenses. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with iASPEC and its shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Such an adjustment may require that we pay additional PRC taxes plus applicable penalties and interest, if any. The exercise of our option to purchase part or all of the equity interests in or assets of iASPEC under the option agreement might be subject to approval by the PRC government, and our failure to obtain this approval may impair our ability to substantially control iASPEC and could result in actions by iASPEC that conflict with our interests. Our option agreement with iASPEC gives our Chinese operating subsidiary, IST, the option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in or assets of iASPEC, however, the option may not be exercised by IST if the exercise would violate any applicable laws and regulations in China or cause any license or permit held by, and necessary for the operation of iASPEC, to be cancelled or invalidated. Under the laws of China, if a foreign entity, through a foreign investment company that it invests in, acquires a domestic related company, China’s regulations regarding mergers and acquisitions would technically apply to the transaction. Application of these regulations requires an examination and approval of the transaction by China’s Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. Also, an appraisal of the equity or assets to be acquired is mandatory. However, Guangdong Jin Di Law Firm Sichuan Office, our local PRC counsel, has advised us that Shenzhen and other local counterparts of MOFCOM hold the view that such a transaction would not require their approval. 9 Therefore, we do not believe at this time that an approval and an appraisal are required for IST to exercise its option to acquire iASPEC in Shenzhen. In light of the different views on this issue, however, it is possible that the central MOFCOM office in Beijing will issue a standardized opinion imposing the approval and appraisal requirement. If we are not able to purchase the equity or assets of iASPEC, then we will lose a substantial portion of our ability to control iASPEC and our ability to ensure that iASPEC will act in our interests. Our right to elect a majority of the members on iASPEC’s Board of Directors and other provisions of the MSA may be viewed by iASPEC’s customers as a change in control of iASPEC, which could subject iASPEC to sanctions and loss of its business license, which in turn would significantly disrupt or possibly terminate our operations. Our commercial arrangement with iASPEC gives us the right to designate two Chinese citizens to serve as senior managers of iASPEC, serve on iASPEC’s Board of Directors and assist in managing the business and operations of iASPEC. In addition, iASPEC will require the affirmative vote of the majority of the our Board of Directors, as well as at least one non-insider director, for completing certain material actions with respect to iASPEC, including, but not limited to: (a) the nomination, appointment, election or replacement of any board members; (b) the distribution of any dividend or profits; (c) any merger, division, change of corporate form, dissolution or liquidation; (d) any reimbursement of net losses or other payments or transfers of funds from IST to iASPEC; (e) the formation or disposition of a subsidiary or the acquisition or disposition of any interest in any other entity; and (f) the encumbrance of any assets under any lien not in the ordinary course of business. However, fulfillment of certain Police-use Geographic Information Systems, or PGIS, contracts with PRC Government customers is restricted to entities, such as iASPEC, that possess the necessary PRC government licenses and approvals, and any change in control may be viewed under PRC law as creating a new entity. If iASPEC’s government customers view these MSA provisions as a change in control of iASPEC or as evidence of iASPEC’s failure to operate its business in a manner that complies with its contractual obligations or with related laws and regulations. Such a perception could result in the cancellation or invalidation of iASPEC’s licenses and permits. A loss by iASPEC of its licenses and permits could result in the significant disruption or possible termination of our business or adversely affect our reputation in the market. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect the growth of our business and our competitive position. Our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: the degree of government involvement; the level of development; the growth rate; the control of foreign exchange; the allocation of resources; an evolving regulatory system; and a lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese economy has also experienced certain adverse effects due to the recent global financial crisis. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 10 Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign invested entities established in the PRC, or FIEs. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations, and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and most of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security, or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. The enforcement of the PRC labor contract law may materially increase our costs and decrease our net income. China adopted a new Labor Contract Law, effective on January 1, 2008, and issued its implementation rules, effective on September 18, 2008. The Labor Contract Law and related rules and regulations impose more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among others, minimum wages, severance payment and non-fixed-term employment contracts, time limits for probation periods, as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed-term employment contract. Due to the limited period of effectiveness of the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules and regulations, and the lack of clarity with respect to their implementation and potential penalties and fines, it is uncertain how they will impact our current employment policies and practices. In particular, compliance with the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules and regulations may increase our operating expenses. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules and regulations may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, and could result in a material decrease in our profitability. 11 If we fail to obtain or maintain all licenses and approvals required to operate our businesses in the PRC, our business and operations may be adversely affected. Fulfillment of certain PGIS contracts with PRC government customers is restricted to entities possessing the necessary government licenses and approvals which our subsidiary IST does not have. We currently perform Police-use Geographic Information Systems contracts through iASPEC, which possesses the requisite licenses and approvals, pursuant to our MSA with iASPEC, whereby iASPEC exclusively engages IST as its subcontractor to provide iASPEC with outsourcing services (to the extent that those services do not violate any special governmental permits held by iASPEC and do not involve the improper transfer of any sensitive confidential governmental or other data). If the PRC government determines that we are operating without the requisite licenses we may become subject to administrative penalties or an order to discontinue our business operations, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.9% and as low as -0.8% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively. The majority of our sales will be settled in RMB, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that FIEs may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our ordinary shares will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 12 Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our sales are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent companies. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of their registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice Concerning Foreign Exchange Controls on Domestic Residents’ Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, effective on November 1, 2005, and Operating Procedures on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Residents Engaging in Financing and Round-trip Investment via Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 19, effective on July 1, 2011. These regulations and rules require PRC residents and corporate entities to register with, and obtain approval from, provincial SAFE branches in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under Circular 75 and related rules, a PRC resident who makes, or has previously made, a direct or indirect investment in an offshore company is required to register that investment. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update the previously filed registration with the relevant provincial SAFE branch to reflect any material change with respect to the offshore company’s roundtrip investment, capital variation, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. We have asked our shareholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 and related rules to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75 and related rules. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 and related rules will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 and related rules by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75 and related rules. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75 and related rules, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006. 13 On August 9, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended in 2009. This regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the regulation will require the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the regulation is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The regulation allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulation also prohibits a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, requires that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests. Our existing contractual arrangements with iASPEC and its shareholders may be subject to national security review by MOFCOM, and the failure to receive the national security review could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In August 2011, MOFCOM promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular 6. The Security Review Rules became effective on September 1, 2011. Under the Security Review Rules, a national security review is required for certain mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors raising concerns regarding national defense and security. Foreign investors are prohibited from circumventing the national security review requirements by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. The application and interpretation of the Security Review Rules remain unclear. Based on our understanding of the Security Review Rules, we do not need to submit our existing contractual arrangements with iASPEC and its shareholders to the MOFCOM for national security review because, among other reasons, (i) we gained de facto control over iASPEC in 2007 prior to the effectiveness of Circular 6 and the Security Review Rules; and (ii) there are currently no explicit provisions or official interpretations indicating that our current businesses fall within the scope of national security review. Although we have no plan to submit our existing contractual arrangements with iASPEC and its shareholders to MOFCOM for national security review, the relevant PRC government agencies, such as MOFCOM, may reach a different conclusion. If MOFCOM or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that we need to submit our existing contractual arrangements with iASPEC and its shareholders for national security review by interpretation, clarification or amendment of the Security Review Rules or by any new rules, regulations or directives promulgated, we may face sanctions by MOFCOM or another PRC regulatory agency. These sanctions may include revoking the business or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiary, IST, or iASPEC and its subsidiaries, discontinuing or restricting our operations in China, confiscating our income or the income of iASPEC, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, such as levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations. The Security Review Rules may make it more difficult for us to make future acquisitions or dispositions of our business operations or assets in China. The Security Review Rules, effective as of September 1, 2011, provides that when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the national security review by MOFCOM, the principle of substance-over-form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from circumventing the national security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. If the business of any target company that we plan to acquire falls within the scope subject to national security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company by equity or asset acquisition, capital increase or even through any contractual arrangement. 14 Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and on November 28, 2007, the State Council of China passed its implementing rules, which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on NonResident Enterprises’ Share Transfer that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make most of our sales in China. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located have conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosure. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business takes place in China, it may be more difficult for the staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosure. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise been scrutinized by any local regulator. 16 Risks Relating to the Market for our Shares If we were delisted from NASDAQ, we may become subject to the trading complications experienced by “Penny Stocks” in the over-the-counter market. Delisting from NASDAQ may cause our shares to become the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. The SEC generally defines a penny stock as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. One such exemption is to be listed on NASDAQ. The market price of our ordinary shares is currently close to $5.00 per share. Therefore, were we to be delisted from NASDAQ, our ordinary shares may become subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. These rules require, among other things, that any broker engaging in a purchase or sale of our securities provide its customers with: (i) a risk disclosure document, (ii) disclosure of market quotations, if any, (iii) disclosure of the compensation of the broker and its salespersons in the transaction and (iv) monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s accounts. A broker would be required to provide the bid and offer quotations and compensation information before effecting the transaction. This information must be contained on the customer’s confirmation. Generally, brokers are less willing to effect transactions in penny stocks due to these additional delivery requirements. These requirements may make it more difficult for shareholders to purchase or sell our ordinary shares. Because the broker, not us, prepares this information, we would not be able to assure that such information is accurate, complete or current. Our stock price is highly volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our shares; speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the our industries; customer demand for our products; investor perceptions of the our industry in general and our company in particular; the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; loss of external funding sources; sales of our ordinary shares, including sales by our directors, officers or significant shareholders; and additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their share price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. 17 We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our shares. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their shares after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our shares. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. We are a “foreign private issuer” and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies, so you should not expect to receive the same information about us as a U.S. domestic reporting company may provide. Furthermore, if we or lose our status as a foreign private issuer, we would be required to comply fully with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers and would incur significant operational, administrative, legal and accounting costs that we would not incur as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. For example, we are not required by the SEC or the federal securities laws to issue quarterly reports or file proxy statements with the SEC. We are also allowed to file our annual report with the SEC within four months of our fiscal year end. We are also not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5. Since many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are different than those required by U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive all of the same types of information about us and at the same time as information is received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the SEC which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose our status as a foreign private issuer at some future time, we will be required to comply fully with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers and would incur significant operational, administrative, legal and accounting costs that it would not incur as a foreign private issuer. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a BVI company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Virtually all of our assets and a substantial portion of our current business operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, almost all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts including judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, many of whom are not residents in the United States and whose assets are located in significant part outside of the United States. The courts of the BVI would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States against the Company under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment, (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the BVI, (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the BVI, (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the BVI and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the BVI. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the BVI or the PRC, respectively, would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such BVI or PRC courts would entertain original actions brought in the courts of the BVI or the PRC, against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 18 Because we are incorporated under the laws of the BVI, it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their rights than it would be for a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended), or the BVI Act, and by the common law of the BVI. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under BVI law may not be as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in the United States or other jurisdictions. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. BVI law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most United States jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation, subject to a limit of up to 50% of such assets. The ability of our board of directors to create new classes or series of shares and the rights attached by amending our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our ordinary shares at a premium over then current market prices. Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. ITEM 