D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our common units. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for distributions or the trading price of our common units. Risks Inherent in Our Business Because our ownership interest in OPCO currently represents our only cash-generating asset, our cash flow depends completely on OPCO’s ability to make distributions to its owners, including us. Our cash flow depends completely on OPCO’s distributions to us as one of its owners. The amount of cash OPCO can distribute to its owners principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the dayrates it obtains under its drilling contracts; • the level of its rig operating costs, such as the cost of crews, repair, maintenance and insurance; • the levels of reimbursable revenues and expenses; • its ability to re-contract its drilling rigs upon expiration or termination of an existing drilling contract and the dayrates it can obtain under such contracts; • delays in the delivery of any new drilling rigs and the beginning of payments under drilling contracts relating to those drilling rigs; • the timeliness of payments from customers under drilling contracts; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • time spent mobilizing drilling rigs to the customer location; • changes in local income tax rates; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of its business. The actual amount of cash OPCO has available for distribution also depends on other factors, such as: • the level of capital and operating expenditures it makes, including for maintaining and replacing drilling rigs or modifying existing drilling rigs to meet customer requirements and complying with regulations or to upgrade technology on OPCO’s drilling rigs; • its debt service requirements, including fluctuations in interest rates, and restrictions on distributions contained in its debt instruments; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • number of days of rig downtime or less than full utilization, which would result in a reduction of revenues under a drilling contract; • whether we or OPCO exercise the option to purchase the T-15 or the T-16, the West Mira or the West Leo, from Seadrill; • whether we or OPCO exercise any options to purchase drilling rigs in the future that are required to be offered to us by Seadrill pursuant to the terms of the Omnibus Agreement or otherwise; 3 Table of Contents • the ability to make working capital borrowings and availability under the sponsor credit facility; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, working capital and other matters, established by our board of directors. OPCO’s operating agreements provide that it will distribute its available cash to its owners on a quarterly basis. OPCO’s available cash includes cash on hand less any reserves that may be appropriate for operating its business. The amount of OPCO’s quarterly distributions, including the amount of cash reserves not distributed, is determined by our board of directors. The amount of cash OPCO generates from operations may differ materially from its profit or loss for the period, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, OPCO may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and subordinated units. The source of our earnings and cash flow consists exclusively of cash distributions from OPCO. Therefore, the amount of cash distributions we are able to make to our unitholders currently fluctuates, based on the level of distributions made by OPCO to its owners, including us, and, in the future, will fluctuate based on the level of cash distributions made by OPCO and any other subsidiaries through which we later conduct operations. OPCO or any such operating subsidiaries may make quarterly distributions at levels that will not permit us to make distributions to our common unitholders at the minimum quarterly distribution level or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if OPCO increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of any such increased or decreased distributions will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by OPCO to us. Our ability to distribute to our unitholders any cash we may receive from OPCO or any future operating subsidiaries is or may be limited by a number of factors, including, among others: • interest expense and principal payments on any indebtedness we incur; • restrictions on distributions contained in any of our current or future debt agreements; • fees and expenses of us, the Seadrill Member, its affiliates or third parties we are required to reimburse or pay, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; and • reserves our board of directors believes are prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. Many of these factors will reduce the amount of cash we may otherwise have available for distribution. We may not be able to pay distributions, and any distributions we make may not be at or above our minimum quarterly distribution. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders depends on several factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. OPCO’s ability to meet its financial needs and grow may be adversely affected by its cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our operating agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In addition, OPCO’s cash distribution policy requires it to distribute all of its available cash each quarter. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution by OPCO, our board of directors will approve the amount of cash reserves to set aside for us and OPCO, including reserves for anticipated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, working capital and other matters. OPCO will also rely upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings, to fund its capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent OPCO does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to obtain financing, its cash distribution policy may significantly impair its ability to meet its financial needs or to grow. 4 Table of Contents OPCO must make substantial capital and operating expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of its fleet, which will reduce cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted. OPCO must make substantial capital and operating expenditures to maintain and replace, over the long-term, the operating capacity, of its fleet. Maintenance and replacement capital expenditures include capital expenditures for maintenance (including special classification surveys) and capital expenditures associated with modifying an existing drilling rig, including to upgrade its technology, acquiring a new drilling rig or otherwise replacing current drilling rigs at the end of their useful lives to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain or replace the operating capacity of OPCO’s fleet. These expenditures could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • fleet size; • the cost of replacement drilling rigs; • the cost of replacement parts for existing drilling rigs; • the geographic location of the drilling rigs; • length of drilling contracts; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization and technical standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • industry standards. Our operating agreement requires our board of directors to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, instead of actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus as a result of variations in actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures each quarter. The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our board of directors underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures exceed our previous estimates. If capital expenditures are financed through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished, our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders could be diluted. Use of cash from operations to expand or maintain OPCO’s fleet will reduce cash available for OPCO to distribute to us and us to distribute to our unitholders. Our ability and that of OPCO to obtain bank financing or our ability to access debt and equity capital markets may be limited by our financial condition or that of OPCO, respectively, at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, changes in the offshore drilling industry and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of any debt financings could limit OPCO’s ability to pay distributions to us and our ability to pay cash 5 Table of Contents distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. OPCO’s debt levels may limit its or our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying distributions to unitholders. As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated debt (including indebtedness outstanding under OPCO’s financing agreements) was approximately $1,192 million. We have the ability to incur additional debt. Please read Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” OPCO’s level of debt could have important consequences to it and us, including the following: • the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we and OPCO will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal (including amortization payments as required by OPCO’s financing agreements) and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • such debt may make us each more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally than our competitors with less debt; and • such debt may limit our and OPCO’s flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our consolidated debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our consolidated current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our consolidated debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Furthermore, OPCO’s financing agreements contain cross-default clauses which are linked to other indebtedness of Seadrill. In the event of a default by Seadrill under one of its other credit facilities, we could be adversely affected by the cross-default clauses, even if Seadrill cures any such default. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions and other covenants may restrict OPCO’s and our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the financing agreements of Seadrill, OPCO or us and any future financing agreements of Seadrill, OPCO or us, could adversely affect our ability and that of OPCO, respectively, to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, subject to certain exceptions, the financing agreements may restrict our ability or that of OPCO to: • enter into other financing agreements; • incur additional indebtedness; • create or permit liens on our respective assets; • sell its drilling rigs or the capital stock of our respective subsidiaries; • change the nature of our business; • make investments; 6 Table of Contents • pay distributions to our unitholders or to us, respectively; • change the management and/or ownership of the drilling rigs; • make capital expenditures; and • compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous restrictions. For more information, please read Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” OPCO’s ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants, including financial ratios and tests, contained in any financing agreements of Seadrill, OPCO or us is dependent on future performance and may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, OPCO’s ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If OPCO is unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing its indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. Seadrill’s obligations under such facilities could exceed the indebtedness of OPCO and its subsidiaries under such agreements. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend and/or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. OPCO has pledged its drilling rigs as security for Seadrill’s obligations under such agreements. If Seadrill’s lenders were to foreclose on OPCO’s drilling rigs in the event of a default, this may adversely affect OPCO’s and our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. In addition, all of OPCO’s loan agreements contain cross-default provisions, meaning that if OPCO is in default under one of its loan agreements, amounts outstanding under its other loan agreements may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, we cannot guarantee that OPCO’s assets will be sufficient to repay in full all of its outstanding indebtedness, and OPCO may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if OPCO could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. Any of these events would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and cause a decline in the market price of our common units. Please read Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Restrictions in OPCO’s debt agreements may prevent it or us from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on OPCO’s debt will reduce cash available for distribution to us and to our unitholders. In addition, OPCO’s current financing agreements contain provisions that, upon the occurrence of certain events, permit lenders to terminate their commitments and/or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts due and payable, which may prevent us from paying distributions to our unitholders. These events include, among others: • a failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • a violation of covenants requiring us to maintain certain levels of insurance coverage, minimum liquidity levels, minimum interest coverage ratios and minimum current ratios; • a default under any other provision of the financing agreement, as well as a default under any provision of related security documents; • a material breach of any representation or warranty contained in the applicable financing agreement; • a default under other indebtedness; • a failure to comply with a final legal judgment from a court of competent jurisdiction; • a bankruptcy or insolvency event; • a suspension or cessation of our business; • the destruction or abandonment of our assets, or the seizure or appropriation thereof by any governmental, regulatory or other authority if the lenders determine such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business or our ability to satisfy our obligations under or otherwise comply with the applicable financing agreement; 7 Table of Contents • the invalidity, unlawfulness or repudiation of any financing agreement or related security document; • an enforcement of any liens or other encumbrances covering our assets; and • the occurrence of certain other events that the lenders believe is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or our ability to satisfy our obligations under or otherwise comply with the applicable financing agreement. OPCO is party to a $300 million revolving credit facility with Seadrill, as the lender, which we refer to as the sponsor credit facility. The sponsor credit facility contains customary covenants and provisions relating to events of default. Furthermore, we expect that OPCO’s future financing agreements will contain similar provisions. For more information regarding these financing agreements, please read Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Activities.” Seadrill’s failure to comply with covenants and other provisions in its existing or future financing agreements could result in cross-defaults under OPCO’s existing financing agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on us. OPCO’s existing financing agreements contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered if Seadrill defaults under the terms of its existing or future financing agreements. In turn, Seadrill’s existing financing arrangements contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered if its key subsidiaries, including North Atlantic Drilling Limited, default under the terms of their existing or future financing arrangements. In the event of a default by Seadrill under one of its financing agreements, the lenders under OPCO’s existing financing agreements could determine that OPCO is in default under its financing agreements. This could result in the acceleration of the maturity of such debt under these agreements and the lenders thereunder may foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt, including OPCO’s drilling rigs, even if Seadrill were to subsequently cure its default. In the event of such acceleration and foreclosure, OPCO might not have sufficient funds or other assets to satisfy all of its obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and would significantly reduce our ability, or make us unable, to make distributions to our unitholders for so long as such default is continuing. The failure to consummate or integrate acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that expand our drilling operations are an important component of our business strategy. For example, we have an option to purchase the T-15 and the T-16 from Seadrill if we are able to reach an agreement with Seadrill regarding their purchase price. Under our omnibus agreement with Seadrill, we and OPCO will have the right to purchase the T-15 and the T-16 from Seadrill at any time within 24 months after their respective acceptance by the customer under the applicable drilling contract. We are not obligated to purchase either of these drilling rigs at the applicable determined price, and, accordingly, we may not complete the purchase of either of such drilling rigs. We believe that other acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. For instance, Seadrill is obligated to offer us the option to purchase the West Mira and the West Leo pursuant to the terms of the omnibus agreement as a result of the recently executed long term contracts related to those drilling rigs. Any acquisition could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common units. Our future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets and the risk of diverting management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. We may also be subject to additional costs related to compliance with various international laws in connection with such acquisition. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our growth depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and natural gas prices, and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and natural gas industry. The offshore drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the offshore drilling sector, which depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect customers’ drilling programs. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling rigs. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: • worldwide production and demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • government regulations, including restrictions on offshore transportation of oil and natural gas; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • accidents, severe weather, natural disasters and other similar incidents relating to the oil and natural gas industry; and • the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our future growth. Sustained periods of low oil and natural gas prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and natural gas companies’ capital expenditure budgets are subject to cash flow from such activities and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling rigs, particularly older and less technologically-advanced drilling rigs, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for drilling rigs or future conditions of the oil and natural gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and natural gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. 9 Table of Contents In addition to oil and natural gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: • the availability of competing offshore drilling rigs; • the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; • oil and natural gas transportation costs; • the level of rig operating costs including crew and maintenance; • the discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves; and • regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. Any of these factors could reduce demand for drilling rigs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on certain subsidiaries of Seadrill, including Seadrill Management, to assist us and OPCO in operating and expanding our business. Our ability and that of OPCO to enter into new drilling contracts and expand our customer and supplier relationships will depend largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Seadrill and its reputation and relationships in the offshore drilling industry. If Seadrill suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: • renew existing drilling contracts upon their expiration; • obtain new drilling contracts; • efficiently and productively carry out our drilling activities; • successfully interact with shipyards; • obtain financing and maintain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; • maintain access to capital under the sponsor credit facility; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. Seadrill has entered into an agreement to sell substantially all of its tender rig fleet to Sapura Kencana Petroleum Bhd. This transaction closed April 30, 2013. The West Vencedor is excluded from this transaction; however, significant management and technical expertise is being transferred from Seadrill to Sapura Kencana Petroleum as a consequence of the transaction. We cannot know the degree to which the transfer of such expertise will impact the ability of Seadrill to provide services and technical support required to operate the West Vencedor. If the quality of services and technical support provided by Seadrill decreases, the operations of the West Vencedor could experience higher downtime and more operating incidents. Such developments could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, pursuant to the management and administrative services agreements, Seadrill Management provides us with significant management, administrative, financial and other support services and/or personnel. As of January 1, 2013, the management services function is being assumed by a new subsidiary incorporated in the United Kingdom, Seadrill Management Ltd. In addition, subsidiaries of Seadrill provide advisory, technical and administrative services to OPCO’s fleet pursuant to advisory, technical and administrative services agreements. Our and OPCO’s operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if Seadrill and its subsidiaries fail to perform these services satisfactorily, if they cancel their agreements with us or if they stop providing these services to us. Please read Item 7 “Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” 10 Table of Contents OPCO’s drilling contracts may not permit OPCO to fully recoup its costs in the event of a rise in expenses. OPCO’s drilling contracts have dayrates that are fixed over the contract term. In order to mitigate the effects of inflation on revenues from these term contracts, all of OPCO’s drilling contracts include escalation provisions. These provisions allow OPCO to adjust the dayrates based on certain published indices. These indices are designed to recompense OPCO for certain cost increases, including wages, insurance and maintenance costs. However, actual cost increases may result from events or conditions that do not cause correlative changes to the applicable indices. Furthermore, certain indices are updated semi-annually, and therefore may be outdated at the time of adjustment. In addition, the adjustments are normally performed on a semi-annual or annual basis. For these reasons, the timing and amount received as a result of the adjustments may differ from the timing and amount of expenditures associated with actual cost increases, which could adversely affect OPCO’s and our cash flow and ability to make cash distributions. An increase in operating and maintenance costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our operating expenses and maintenance costs depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, provisions, equipment, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire offshore drilling industry. During periods after which a rig becomes idle, we may decide to “warm stack” the rig, which means the rig is kept fully operational and ready for redeployment, and maintains most of its crew. As a result, our operating expenses during a warm stacking will not be substantially different than those we would incur if the rig remained active. We may also decide to “cold stack” the rig, which means the rig is stored in a harbor, shipyard or a designated offshore area, and the crew is assigned to an active rig or dismissed. However, reductions in costs following the decision to cold stack a rig may not be immediate, as a portion of the crew may be required to prepare the rig for such storage. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in supply of offshore drilling rigs and demand for contract drilling services, which in turn, affect dayrates, and the economic utilization and performance of OPCO’s fleet of drilling rigs. However, operating costs are generally related to the number of drilling rigs in operation and the cost level in each country or region where such drilling rigs are located. In addition, equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the drilling rig is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Escalation provisions contained in OPCO’s drilling contracts may not be adequate to substantially mitigate these increased operating and maintenance costs. In connection with new assignments, OPCO might incur expenses relating to preparation for operations under a new contract. The expenses may vary based on the scope and length of such required preparations and the duration of the contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. In situations where OPCO’s drilling rigs incur idle time between assignments, the opportunity to reduce the size of its crews on those drilling rigs is limited as the crews will be engaged in preparing the drilling rig for its next contract. When a drilling rig faces longer idle periods, reductions in costs may not be immediate as some of the crew may be required to prepare drilling rigs for stacking and maintenance in the stacking period. Should drilling rigs be idle for a longer period, OPCO may not be successful in redeploying crew members, who are not required to maintain the drilling rigs, and therefore may not be successful in reducing our costs in such cases. Any limitation in the availability or operation of OPCO’s four drilling rigs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. OPCO’s fleet currently consists of two semi-submersible drilling rigs, one drillship and one tender rig. If any of OPCO’s drilling rigs are unable to generate revenues as a result of the expiration or termination of its drilling contracts or sustained periods of downtime, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Some of OPCO’s customers have the right to terminate their drilling contracts without cause upon the payment of an early termination fee. However, such payments may not fully compensate OPCO for the loss of the drilling contract. Under certain circumstances OPCO’s contracts may permit customers to terminate contracts early without the payment of any termination fees as a result of non-performance, total loss of the rigs, extended periods of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events beyond OPCO’s control. During periods of challenging market conditions, OPCO may be subject to an increased risk of its customers seeking to repudiate their contracts, 11 Table of Contents including through claims of non-performance. OPCO’s customers’ ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts may also be negatively impacted by the prevailing uncertainty surrounding the development of the world economy and the credit markets. If a customer cancels its contract, and OPCO is unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is suspended for an extended period of time or if a contract is renegotiated on different terms, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may reduce the amount of cash OPCO has available to distribute to us and that we have available for distribution to our unitholders. For more information regarding the termination provisions of OPCO’s drilling contracts, please read Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Drilling Contracts.” OPCO currently derives all its revenue from four customers, and the loss of any of these customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. OPCO currently derives all of its revenues and cash flow from four customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, ExxonMobil accounted for 35%, Total accounted for 36%, Chevron accounted for 14% and BP accounted for 15% of OPCO’s total revenues, respectively. All of OPCO’s drilling contracts have fixed terms, but may be terminated early due to certain events or might nevertheless be lost in the event of unanticipated developments, such as the deterioration in the general business or financial condition of a customer, resulting in its inability meet its obligations under our contracts. If any of OPCO’s drilling contracts are terminated, OPCO may be unable to re-deploy the drilling rig subject to such terminated contract on terms as favorable to it as its current drilling contracts. If OPCO is unable to re-deploy a drilling rig for which the drilling contract has been terminated, OPCO will not receive any revenues from that drilling rig, but it will be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the drilling rig in proper operating condition. This may cause OPCO to receive decreased revenues and cash flows from having fewer drilling rigs operating in its fleet. The loss of any customers, drilling contracts or drilling rigs, or a decline in payments under any of OPCO’s drilling contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, our drilling contracts subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the offshore drilling industry, prevailing prices for oil and natural gas, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the dayrates received for specific types of drilling rigs and the level of expenses necessary to maintain drilling activities. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our customers may no longer need a drilling rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable drilling rig at a lower dayrate. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we could sustain losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution. OPCO may not be able to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for drilling rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, which could adversely affect its revenues and profitability. OPCO’s ability to renew expiring contracts or obtain new contracts will depend on the prevailing market conditions at the time. If OPCO is not able to obtain new contracts in direct continuation with existing contracts, or if new contracts are entered into at dayrates substantially below the existing dayrates or on terms otherwise less favorable compared to existing contract terms, its revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. The offshore drilling markets in which we compete experience fluctuations in the demand for drilling services, as measured by the level of exploration and development expenditures and supply of capable drilling equipment. The existing drilling contracts for our drilling rigs currently employed are scheduled to expire from March 2015 through April 2019. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain contracts for our drilling rigs currently employed upon the expiration or termination of their current contracts or that there will not be a gap in employment of the rigs between current contracts and subsequent contracts. In particular, if oil and natural gas prices are low, or it is expected that such prices will decrease in the future, at a time when we are seeking to arrange contracts for our drilling rigs, we may not be able to obtain drilling contracts at attractive dayrates or at all. If the dayrates which we receive for the reemployment of our current drilling rigs are less favorable, we will recognize less revenue from their operations. Our ability to meet our cash flow obligations will depend on our ability to consistently secure drilling contracts for our drilling rigs at sufficiently high dayrates. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. If oil and gas 12 Table of Contents companies do not continue to increase exploration, development and production expenditures, we may have difficulty securing drilling contracts, or we may be forced to enter into contracts at unattractive dayrates, which would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Competition within the offshore drilling industry may adversely affect us. The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in the markets OPCO serves, as well as smaller companies. Offshore drilling contracts are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis or through privately negotiated transactions. In determining which qualified drilling contractor is awarded a contract, the key factors are pricing, rig availability, rig location, condition and integrity of equipment, its record of operating efficiency, including high operating uptime, technical specifications, safety performance record, crew experience, reputation, industry standing and customer relations. OPCO’s operations may be adversely affected if its current competitors or new market entrants introduce new drilling rigs with better features, performance, price or other characteristics in comparison to OPCO’s drilling rigs, or expand into service areas where OPCO operates. In addition, mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced, and may from time to time further reduce, the number of available customers, which would increase the ability of potential customers to achieve pricing terms favorable to them. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. An economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. We and OPCO depend on OPCO’s customers’ willingness and ability to fund operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas, and to purchase drilling and related equipment. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and natural gas. The world economy is currently facing a number of challenges. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, particularly in Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries after June 2013. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash available for distribution. This includes uncertainty surrounding the sovereign debt and credit crises in certain European countries. In addition, turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries are adding to overall risk. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas and for our services. Such changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms which may hinder or prevent us from expanding our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions might adversely impact our ability to issue additional equity at prices which will not be dilutive to our existing unitholders or preclude us from issuing equity at all. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to expand our existing business, complete drilling rig acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 13 Table of Contents Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2012, our backlog of contract drilling revenues under firm commitments was approximately $2.76 billion. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described under “—Certain work stoppages or maintenance or repair work may cause OPCO’s customers to suspend or reduce payment of dayrates until operation of the respective rig is resumed, which may lead to termination or renegotiation of important agreements.” In addition, some of our customers could experience liquidity issues or could otherwise be unable or unwilling to perform under the contract, which could ultimately lead a customer to go into bankruptcy or to otherwise encourage a customer to seek to repudiate, cancel or renegotiate a contract. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Failure to obtain or retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect OPCO’s operations. We believe that competition for skilled and other labor required for OPCO’s drilling operations has increased in recent years as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets has increased. The number of rigs in operation is continuing to grow as new units ordered during the period from 2005 to 2008 are being delivered, and additional rigs ordered from September 2010 to date are expected to increase the future demand for offshore drilling crews. In some regions such as Angola and Nigeria, limited availability of qualified personnel, in combination with local regulations focusing on crew composition, is expected to further increase demand for qualified offshore drilling crews, which may increase costs. A continued expansion of the rig fleet, increased demand for drilling services in general, coupled with shortages of qualified personnel could further create and intensify upward pressure on wages and make it more difficult or costly for OPCO to staff and service its rigs, or do so on economically viable terms. Such developments could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, as a result of any increased competition for people and risk for higher turnover, OPCO may experience a reduction in the experience level of its personnel, which could lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents. Certain work stoppages or maintenance or repair work may cause OPCO’s customers to suspend or reduce payment of dayrates until operation of the respective drilling rig is resumed, which may lead to termination or renegotiation of the drilling contract. Compensation under OPCO’s drilling contracts is based on daily performance and/or availability of each drilling rig in accordance with the requirements specified in the applicable drilling contract agreement. For instance, when our drilling rigs are idle, but available for operation, OPCO’s customers are entitled to pay a waiting rate lower than the operational rate. Several factors could cause an interruption of operations, including: • breakdowns of equipment and other unforeseen engineering problems; • work stoppages, including labor strikes; • shortages of material and skilled labor; • delays in repairs by suppliers; • surveys by government and maritime authorities; • periodic classification surveys; • severe weather, strong ocean currents or harsh operating conditions; and • force majeure events. In addition, if OPCO’s drilling rigs are taken out of service for maintenance and repair for a period of time exceeding the scheduled maintenance periods set forth in its drilling contracts, we will not be entitled to payment of dayrates until the relevant rig is available for deployment. If the interruption of operations were to exceed a determined period due to an event of force majeure, OPCO’s customers have the right to pay a rate (the “force majeure rate”) that is significantly lower than the waiting rate for a period of time, and, thereafter, may 14 Table of Contents terminate the drilling contracts related to the subject rig. For more details on OPCO’s drilling contracts, see Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Drilling Contracts” and Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Important Financial and Operational Terms and Concepts—Contracted Revenues and Dayrates.” Suspension of drilling contract payments, prolonged payment of reduced rates or termination of any drilling contract agreements as a result of an interruption of operations as described herein could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Labor costs and operating restrictions that apply to OPCO could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. A significant portion of OPCO’s employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these employees work in Nigeria and Angola. In addition, some of OPCO’s contracted labor works under collective bargaining agreements. As part of the legal obligations in some of these agreements, OPCO is required to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and is restricted in its ability to dismiss employees. In addition, many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to salary negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel costs, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for drilling rig personnel on a timely basis could hurt its operations and have an adverse effect on our business. OPCO’s ability to operate worldwide depends on obtaining the necessary visas and work permits for the personnel on its drilling rigs to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which it operates. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which OPCO operates may make it difficult to move personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these visa and work permits. If visas and work permits cannot be obtained for the employees needed for operating OPCO’s rigs on a timely basis or for third-party technicians needed for maintenance or repairs, OPCO might not be able to perform its obligations under its drilling contracts, which could lead to periods of prolonged downtime or allow OPCO’s customers to cancel the contracts. Any such downtime or cancellation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. OPCO’s business and operations involve numerous operating hazards, and its insurance and indemnities from its customers may not be adequate to cover potential losses from its operations. OPCO’s operations are subject to hazards inherent in the offshore drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling requires the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. OPCO’s offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, piracy, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. OPCO customarily provides contract indemnity to its customers for claims that could be asserted by OPCO relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs, and claims that could be asserted by OPCO or its employees relating to personal injury or loss of life. Damage to the environment could also result from OPCO’s operations, particularly through spillage of hydrocarbons, fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in drilling operations, or extensive uncontrolled fires. OPCO may also be subject to property damage, environmental indemnity and other claims by oil and natural gas companies. OPCO’s insurance policies and drilling contracts contain rights to indemnity that may not adequately cover its losses, and OPCO does not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. There are certain risks, including risks associated with the loss of control of a well (such as blowout, cratering, the cost to regain control of or re-drill the well and remediation of associated pollution), against which OPCO’s customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify OPCO against such risks. In addition, a court may decide that certain indemnities in OPCO’s current or future contracts are not enforceable. For example, in 2012, a U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana invalidated certain contractual indemnities for punitive 15 Table of Contents damages and for civil penalties under the US Clean Water Act under a drilling contract governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. For example, in 2011, a U.S. District Court in the Southern District of Texas invalidated certain contractual indemnities for gross negligence in a drilling master services agreement governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. OPCO maintains insurance coverage for property damage, occupational injury and illness, and general and marine third-party liabilities (except as described below with respect to drilling rigs and equipment in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, or the U.S. GOM). However, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. OPCO’s insurance provides for deductibles for damage to its offshore drilling equipment and third-party liabilities. With respect to hull and machinery, OPCO’s insurance provides for a deductible per occurrence of $5 million for all of its fleet. However, in the event of a total loss or a constructive total loss of a drilling rig, such loss is fully covered by its insurance with no deductible. For general and marine third-party liabilities OPCO’s insurance provides for up to a $500,000 deductible per occurrence on personal injury liability for crew claims as well as non-crew claims and per occurrence on third-party property damage. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by OPCO’s insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, the occurrence could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash available for distribution. The amount of OPCO’s insurance may also be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. OPCO’s insurance coverage will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect it from all liabilities that could result from its drilling operations. OPCO’s coverage includes annual aggregate policy limits. As a result, OPCO retains the risk for any losses in excess of these limits. Any such lack of reimbursement may cause OPCO to incur substantial costs. In addition, OPCO could decide to retain more risk in the future. This results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. Specifically, OPCO has elected to not insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. GOM due to the substantial costs associated with such coverage. If such windstorms cause significant damage to any rig and equipment OPCO has in the U.S. GOM, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, no assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, or obtain insurance against certain risks. An over-supply of drilling rigs may lead to a reduction in dayrates and therefore may materially impact OPCO’s profitability. During the recent period of high utilization and high dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of drilling rigs by ordering construction of new drilling rigs. Historically, this has resulted in an over-supply of drilling rigs and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and dayrates when the drilling rigs have entered the market, sometimes for extended periods of time until the new units have been absorbed into the active fleet. As of December 31, 2012, the worldwide fleet of tender rigs, semi-submersible rigs and drillships consisted of 331 units, comprised of 33 tender rigs, 214 semi-submersible rigs and 84 drillships. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, there were 12 tender rigs, 20 semi-submersible rigs and 75 drillships were under construction or on order, which would bring the total fleet to 438 units. A relatively large number of the drilling rigs currently under construction have not been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur and lead to a reduction in dayrates as the active fleet grows. Any further increase in construction of new units may increase the negative impact on dayrates and utilization. In addition, drilling rigs may be relocated to markets in which we operate, which could exacerbate excess drilling rig supply and lower dayrates in those markets. If a large number of drilling rigs become available around the time of expiration of our drilling contracts, it could depress the dayrate we are able to obtain under a renewed or new contract with respect to our drilling rigs. Lower utilization and dayrates could adversely affect OPCO’s revenues and profitability, which could affect OPCO’s ability to make distributions to us and us to our unitholders. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on OPCO’s drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these drilling rigs may not be recoverable. 16 Table of Contents The market value of OPCO’s current drilling rigs and those we or OPCO acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. If the offshore drilling industry suffers adverse developments in the future, the fair market value of OPCO’s drilling rigs may decline. The fair market value of the drilling rigs that OPCO currently owns, or that we or OPCO may acquire in the future, may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies; • types, sizes and ages of drilling rigs; • supply and demand for drilling rigs; • costs of new buildings; • prevailing level of drilling services contract dayrates; • governmental or other regulations; and • technological advances. If we or OPCO sell any drilling rig at a time when prices for drilling rigs have fallen, such a sale may result in a loss. Such a loss could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability of OPCO to pay distributions to us and us to our unitholders. Consolidation and governmental regulation of suppliers may increase the cost of obtaining supplies or restrict OPCO’s ability to obtain needed supplies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. OPCO relies on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for its offshore drilling operations, including but not limited to drilling equipment suppliers, catering and machinery suppliers. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. With respect to certain items, such as blow-out preventers, OPCO is dependent upon the original equipment manufacturer for repair and replacement of the item or its spare parts. For instance, several drilling companies, including Seadrill, experienced significant interruption of operations in early 2013 as a result of a defective batch of connector bolts procured by a supplier of BOP equipment, and the only source of approved replacement bolts was that same supplier. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling rigs under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby increasing the cost of supplies and/or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse effect on OPCO’s results of operations and result in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of its drilling rigs. Furthermore, most of OPCO’s suppliers are U.S. companies, which means that in the event a U.S. supplier was debarred or otherwise restricted by the U.S. government from delivering its product, OPCO’s ability to supply and service its operations could be materially impacted. For example, recently, four international freight forwarding companies, including our principal freight forwarder, CEVA, were debarred for a short period of time by the U.S. government. Because CEVA’s debarment was for a short period of time, our operations were not materially impaired. In addition, through regulation and permitting, certain foreign governments effectively restrict the number of suppliers and technicians available to supply and service our operations in those jurisdictions, which could materially impact our operations. Please see “—Local content policies may impair OPCO’s ability to compete in local jurisdictions, and changes in these policies may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.” OPCO’s international operations involve additional risks, which could adversely affect our business. As a result of OPCO’s international operations, we may be exposed to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, armed hostilities, war and civil disturbances; 17 Table of Contents • acts of piracy, which have historically affected ocean-going drilling rigs trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, where piracy has increased significantly in frequency since 2008, and off the west coast of Africa; • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • political unrest; • foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • the inability to repatriate income or capital; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers; • U.S. and foreign sanctions or trade embargoes; • regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; • changing taxation policies, including confiscatory taxation; • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; and • governmental corruption. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations of the countries in which OPCO operates, including laws and regulations relating to: • the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; • exchange rates or exchange controls; • oil and natural gas exploration and development; • taxation of offshore earnings and the earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of assets. If OPCO’s business activities involve countries, entities and individuals that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, we could be subject to enforcement action and our reputation and the market for our common units could be adversely affected. U.S. sanctions have been tightened in recent years to target the activities of non-U.S. companies, such as us. In particular, sanctions against Iran have been significantly expanded. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as us, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or 18 Table of Contents trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. On August 10, 2012, the U.S. signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which places further restrictions on the ability of non-U.S. companies to do business or trade with Iran and Syria. Perhaps the most significant provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that prohibitions in the existing Iran sanctions applicable to U.S. persons will now apply to any foreign entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person (essentially making the U.S. sanctions against Iran as expansive as U.S. sanctions against Cuba). These new sanctions were codified within the Iranian Transactions Regulations on or about December 26, 2012. However, we do not believe this provision is applicable to us, as we are primarily owned and controlled by non-U.S. persons. The other major provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 if the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. The disclosure must describe the nature and extent of the activity in detail and the SEC will publish the disclosure on its website. The President must then initiate an investigation and determine whether sanctions on the issuer or its affiliate will be imposed. Such negative publicity and the possibility that sanctions could be imposed would present a risk for any issuer that is knowingly engaged in sanctioned conduct or that has an affiliate that is knowingly engaged in such conduct. At this time, we are not aware of any violative activity, conducted by ourselves or by any affiliate of Seadrill, that is likely to trigger an SEC disclosure requirement. Sanctions affecting non-U.S. companies like us were expanded yet again under the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act, with the passage of the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act, and we believe that these sanctions will continue to become more restrictive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the sanctions against Iran, U.S. law continues to restrict U.S. owned or controlled entities from doing business with Cuba and various U.S. sanctions have certain other extraterritorial effects that need to be considered by non-U.S. companies. Moreover, any U.S. persons who serve as officers, directors or employees of OPCO would be fully subject to U.S. sanctions. It should also be noted that other governments are more frequently implementing versions of U.S. sanctions. OPCO does not currently have any drilling contracts or plans to initiate any drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, from time to time, OPCO may enter into drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism in cases where entering into such contracts would not violate U.S. law or may enter into drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that may become subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, this could negatively affect our ability to obtain investors. In some cases, U.S. investors would be prohibited from investing in an arrangement in which the proceeds could directly or indirectly be transferred to a sanctioned entity. Moreover, even in cases where the investment would not violate U.S. law, potential investors could view such drilling contracts negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common units. As stated above, we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance. However, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our common units. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our common units simply because we may do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, OPCO’s drilling contracts may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us, OPCO or its drilling rigs, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common units may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Local content policies may impair OPCO’s ability to compete in local jurisdictions, and changes in these policies may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Certain foreign governments, such as those of Nigeria and Angola, favor or effectively require (i) the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or to drilling rigs owned by their own citizens, (ii) the use of a local agent or (iii) foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. For example, the local content policy in Angola requires our customers to develop and implement a plan to increase local Angolan content, including specific goals. In addition, Nigerian laws require one of our subsidiaries to enter into a joint venture with Nigerian investors to own the West Capella. These regulations may adversely affect OPCO’s ability to compete in these contract drilling markets. Further, local content policies may be subject to significant and unpredictable changes, which may lead to greater uncertainty in operational planning in those jurisdictions. 19 Table of Contents If our drilling rigs fail to maintain their class certification or fail any required survey, that drilling rig would be unable to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. Every offshore drilling rig is a registered marine vessel and must be “classed” by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the drilling rig is “in-class,” signifying that such drilling rig has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the drilling rig’s country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake them on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned. The West Aquarius is certified as being “in class” by Det Norske Veritas. Each of the West Capella, the West Capricorn and the West Vencedor is certified as being “in class” by American Bureau of Shipping. If any drilling rig does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey or special survey, the drilling rig will be unable to carry on operations and will be unemployable and uninsurable, which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry on operations or be employed, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The West Capella, the West Aquarius, the West Capricorn, and the West Vencedor are scheduled to undergo five-year special surveys in 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 respectively. Fluctuations in exchange rates or exchange controls could result in losses to us. As a result of OPCO’s international operations, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates due to revenues being received and operating expenses paid in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, we may experience currency exchange losses if we have not fully hedged our exposure to a foreign currency, or if revenues are received in currencies that are not readily convertible. We may also be unable to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over the repatriation of income or capital or controls over currency exchange. OPCO and the majority of its subsidiaries use the U.S. Dollar as their functional currency because the majority of their revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, our reporting currency is also U.S. Dollars. We do, however, earn revenue and incur expenses in other currencies and there is a risk that currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our statements of operations and cash flows. We are exposed with respect to the West Vencedor, which receives approximately 27% of its dayrate in Euros. In addition, we receive 10% of the West Capella’s revenues in Nigerian Naira. Although we are currently offsetting our Naira revenues with our operating costs denominated in Nigerian Naira, if, in the future, we are required to receive a greater portion of our revenues in Nigerian Naira, we may be unable to offset such revenue with operating expenses owed in Nigerian Naira and, as a result, may incur substantial foreign exchange losses. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against this risk. The Nigerian Naira exchange rate is set by the Nigerian Central Bank, and such rate may not reflect the rates we are able to achieve in the market. Exchanges at market rates may result in substantial foreign exchange losses. In addition, the government of Angola has discussed requiring a certain portion of payments for our drilling contract for the West Vencedor to be made into a local Angolan bank account. If this requirement is enforced, we may be unable to remove such cash from Angola, and if we are able to remove such cash, we may incur substantial foreign exchange losses. A change in tax laws in any country in which we operate could result in higher tax expense. We conduct our operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate (including the United States, Canada, Nigeria and Angola). Our income tax expense is based on our interpretation of the tax laws in effect at the time the expense was incurred. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our earnings. We file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and audit by various revenue agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Taxing authorities may challenge any of our tax positions, at which time we will contest 20 Table of Contents such assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. Determinations by such authorities that differ materially from our recorded estimates, favorably or unfavorably, may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain, maintain, and/or renew permits necessary for our operations or experience delays in obtaining such permits, which could have a material effect on our operations. The operation of OPCO’s drilling rigs are subject to certain governmental approvals and permits. The permitting rules in most jurisdictions, and the interpretations of those rules, are complex, subject to change, including their interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may increase the length of time it takes to receive regulatory approval for offshore drilling operations. In many jurisdictions, substantive requirements under environmental laws are implemented through permits and permit renewals. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, OPCO’s customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to OPCO’s detriment. In the future, the amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas or increasing the time needed to obtain necessary environmental permits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. OPCO’s operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, and national, state and local laws and regulations (including those of the United States, Canada, Nigeria, and Angola) in force in the jurisdictions in which its drilling rigs operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the operation of its drilling rigs. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, and, accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that, for economic, environmental or other policy reasons, may curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lifetime of OPCO’s drilling rigs. OPCO may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of its ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of OPCO’s operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject OPCO to liability without regard to whether it was negligent or at fault. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. OPCO’s drilling rigs could cause the release of oil or hazardous substances, especially as its drilling rigs age. Any releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or occur in protected or sensitive areas where public interest groups or governmental authorities have special interests. Any releases of oil or hazardous substances could result in fines and other costs to OPCO, such as costs to upgrade its drilling rigs, clean up the releases, and comply with more stringent requirements in its discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in OPCO’s customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating its operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. If we are able to obtain from our customers some degree of contractual indemnification against pollution and environmental damages, the indemnification may not be applicable in all instances or the customer may not be financially able to comply with its indemnity obligations. In the future, OPCO may not be able to obtain contractual indemnification against pollution and environmental damages. In addition, we are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Our insurance coverage may not be available in the future, or we may not obtain certain insurance coverage. Even if insurance is available and we have obtained the coverage, the insurance coverage may not be adequate to satisfy our liabilities or its insurance underwriters may be unable to pay compensation if a significant claim should occur. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the offshore drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Future earnings and cash available for distribution may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. Climate change and regulation of greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on our business. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization, or IMO, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 2005 and pursuant to which adopting countries have been required to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, in July 2011 the IMO’s Maritime Environment Protection Committee, or MEPC, adopted two new sets of mandatory requirements to address greenhouse gas emissions from ships that will enter into force in January 2013. Currently operating ships will be required to develop Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans, and minimum energy efficiency levels per capacity mile will apply to new ships. These requirements could cause us to incur additional compliance costs. The IMO is also considering the development of market-based mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships. In April 2013, the European Union Parliament rejected proposed changes to the European Union Emissions law regarding carbon trading. The European Union is still considering expansion of the existing European Union emissions trading scheme to include emissions of greenhouse gases from marine vessels, including drilling units, and in January 2012, the European Commission launched a public consultation on possible measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships. In the United States, the EPA has issued a finding that greenhouse gases endanger the public health and safety and has adopted regulations to limit greenhouse gas emissions from certain mobile sources and large stationary sources. Although the mobile source emissions regulations do not apply to greenhouse gas emissions from drilling units, such regulation of drilling units is foreseeable, and the EPA has in recent years received petitions from the California Attorney General and various environmental groups seeking such regulation. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our assets, and might also require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Additionally, adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. Please read Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions” below for a more detailed discussion. The aftermath of the moratorium on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and new regulations adopted as a result of the investigation into the Macondo well blowout, could negatively impact us. In the near-term aftermath of the Macondo well blow out incident, the U.S. government on May 30, 2010 imposed a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in water deeper than 500 feet in the U.S. GOM and subsequently implemented Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06, providing enhanced safety requirements applicable to all drilling activity in the U.S. GOM, including drilling activities in water shallower than 500 feet. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the moratorium subject to compliance with the requirements set forth in Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06. Additionally, all drilling in the U.S. GOM must comply with the Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule), which took effect October 22, 2012, and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS), which was issued on October 15, 2010 and required SEMS 22 Table of Contents programs to be in place on or before November 15, 2011. We continue to evaluate these new measures and others to ensure that OPCO’s rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. As new standards and procedures are being integrated into the existing framework of offshore regulatory programs, we anticipate that there may be increased costs associated with regulatory compliance and delays in obtaining permits for other operations such as recompletions, workovers and abandonment activities. Additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the Macondo incident. We are not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking or when the interim rules, or any future rules, could become final. The current and future regulatory environment in the U.S. GOM could impact the demand for drilling rigs in the U.S. GOM in terms of overall number of rigs in operation and the technical specification required for offshore rigs to operate in the U.S. GOM. It is possible that short-term potential migration of rigs from the U.S. GOM could adversely impact dayrates levels and fleet utilization in other regions. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of OPCO’s operations, and escalating costs borne by its customers, along with permitting delays, could reduce exploration and development activity in the U.S. GOM and, therefore, reduce demand for OPCO’s services. In addition, insurance costs across the industry have increased as a result of the Macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all. We cannot predict if the U.S. government will issue new drilling permits in a timely manner, nor can we predict the potential impact of new regulations that may be forthcoming as the investigation into the Macondo well incident continues. Nor can we predict if implementation of additional regulations might subject OPCO to increased costs of operating and/or a reduction in the area of operation in the U.S. GOM. As such, our cash available for distribution and financial position could be adversely affected if our drilling rig operating in the U.S. GOM became subject to the risks mentioned above. Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike caused damage to a number of unaffiliated drilling rigs in the U.S. GOM. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, or BOEMRE, formerly the Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, effective October 1, 2011, reorganized into two new organizations, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, or BOEM, and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, or BSEE, and issued guidelines for tie-downs on drilling rigs and permanent equipment and facilities attached to outer continental shelf production platforms, and moored drilling rig fitness that apply through the 2013 hurricane season. These guidelines effectively impose new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to increase the likelihood of survival of offshore drilling rigs during a hurricane. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies that operate properties in the U.S. GOM region of the Outer Continental Shelf. BOEM and BSEE may issue similar guidelines for future hurricane seasons and may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for OPCO’s ultra-deepwater drilling rigs, thereby reducing their marketability. Implementation of new guidelines or regulations that may apply to ultra-deepwater drilling rigs may subject OPCO to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of its drilling rigs, although such risks to the extent possible should rest with OPCO’s customers. We cannot guarantee that the use of OPCO’s drilling rigs will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to OPCO’s drilling rigs and related equipment are owned by its suppliers. In the event that one of OPCO’s suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned by OPCO, it may lose access to repair services, replacement parts, or could be required to cease use of some equipment. In addition, OPCO’s competitors may assert claims for infringement of intellectual property rights related to certain equipment on its drilling rigs and OPCO may be required to stop using such equipment and/or pay damages and royalties for the use of such equipment. The consequences of technology disputes involving OPCO’s suppliers or competitors could adversely affect its financial results, operations and cash available for distribution. OPCO has provisions in some of its supply contracts which provide indemnity from the supplier against intellectual property lawsuits. However, we cannot be assured that these suppliers will be willing or financially able to honor their indemnity obligations, or guarantee that the indemnities will fully protect OPCO from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. OPCO also has provisions in some of its customer contracts to require the customer to share some of these risks on a limited basis, but we cannot provide assurance that these provisions will fully protect OPCO from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. 23 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the UK Bribery Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, drilling contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. OPCO currently operates its drilling rigs in a number of countries throughout the world, including some with developing economies. Also, the existence of state or government-owned shipbuilding enterprises puts OPCO in contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” or “foreign public officials” under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the FCPA, and the Bribery Act 2010 of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, or the UK Bribery Act, respectively. We are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, as well as recordkeeping and internal accounting controls, which are consistent and in full compliance with the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, OPCO, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of OPCO’s operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations would be expensive and consume significant time and attention of our senior management. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. For example, in Nigeria, we expect that Nigerian investors will be permitted to invest in a subsidiary of Seadrill Operating LP that is fully controlled and approximately 56% owned by Seadrill Operating LP, and will result in a Nigerian joint venture partner owning an effective 1% interest in the West Capella. Seadrill owns the remaining ownership interest in the joint venture. All of these activities involve interaction by our agents with non-U.S. government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non-U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest could affect us specifically or, more generally, the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Acts of terrorism, piracy, and political and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. OPCO’s drilling operations may be targeted by acts of terrorism, piracy, or acts of vandalism or sabotage carried out by environmental activist groups. In addition, acts of terrorism and political and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services and result in lower dayrates. OPCO’s insurance premiums could increase as a result of these events, and coverage may be unavailable in the future. Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our business to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. U.S. sanctions, in particular, are targeted against countries (such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, among others) that are heavily involved in the petroleum and petrochemical industries, which includes drilling activities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could also result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, and seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. 24 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Seadrill and its affiliates may compete with us. Pursuant to our omnibus agreement, Seadrill and its controlled affiliates (other than us, the Seadrill Member and our subsidiaries) generally have agreed not to acquire, own, operate or contract for certain drilling rigs operating under drilling contracts of five or more years, unless Seadrill offers to sell such drilling rigs to us. The omnibus agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow Seadrill or any of its controlled affiliates to compete with us, which could harm our business. Please read Item 7 “Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Agreements Governing the Transactions—Omnibus Agreement—Noncompetition.” Unitholders have limited voting rights, and our operating agreement restricts the voting rights of the unitholders owning more than 5% of our common units. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. We will hold a meeting of the members every year to elect one or more members of our board of directors and to vote on any other matters that are properly brought before the meeting. Common unitholders are entitled to elect only four of the seven members of our board of directors. The elected directors will be elected on a staggered basis and will serve for three year terms. The Seadrill Member in its sole discretion appoints the remaining three directors and sets the terms for which those directors will serve. The operating agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders have no right to elect the Seadrill Member, and the Seadrill Member may not be removed except by a vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding common and subordinated units, including any units owned by the Seadrill Member and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. Our operating agreement further restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 5% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 5% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. The voting rights of any such unitholders in excess of 5% will effectively be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders holding less than 5% of the voting power of all classes of units entitled to vote. The Seadrill Member, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors are not be subject to this 5% limitation except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors. The Seadrill Member and its other affiliates own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited duties to us and our common unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. As of December 31, 2012, Seadrill owned a 75.7% limited liability company interest in us, and owned and controlled the Seadrill Member. Certain of our officers and directors are directors and/or officers of Seadrill and its subsidiaries and, as such, they have fiduciary duties to Seadrill that may cause them to pursue business strategies that disproportionately benefit Seadrill or which otherwise are not in the best interests of us or our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Seadrill and its subsidiaries on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, Seadrill and its subsidiaries may favor their own interests over the interests of our unitholders. Please read “—Our operating agreement limits the duties the Seadrill Member and our directors and officers may have to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by the Seadrill Member or our directors and officers.” These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our operating agreement nor any other agreement requires the Seadrill Member or Seadrill or its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Seadrill’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of Seadrill, which may be contrary to our interests; 25 Table of Contents • our operating agreement provides that the Seadrill Member may make determinations to take or decline to take actions without regard to our or our unitholders’ interests. Specifically, the Seadrill Member may exercise its call right, pre-emptive rights, registration rights or right to make a determination to receive common units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, consent or withhold consent to any merger or consolidation of the company, appoint any directors or vote for the election of any director, vote or refrain from voting on amendments to our operating agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraw from the company, transfer (to the extent permitted under our operating agreement) or refrain from transferring its units, the Seadrill Member interest or incentive distribution rights or vote upon the dissolution of the company; • the Seadrill Member and our directors and officers have limited their liabilities and any fiduciary duties they may have under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders, and, as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by the Seadrill Member and our directors and officers, all as set forth in the operating agreement; • the Seadrill Member is entitled to reimbursement of all costs incurred by it and its affiliates for our benefit; • our operating agreement does not restrict us from paying the Seadrill Member or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • the Seadrill Member may exercise its right to call and purchase our common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units; and • the Seadrill Member is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of its limited call right. Although a majority of our directors will, over time, be elected by common unitholders, the Seadrill Member will likely have substantial influence on decisions made by our board of directors. Please read Item 7 “Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions” Although we control OPCO, we owe duties to OPCO and its other owner, Seadrill, which may conflict with the interests of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the relationships between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and OPCO, and its other owner, Seadrill, on the other hand. Seadrill owns a 70% limited partner interest in Seadrill Operating LP, a 49% limited liability company interest in Seadrill Capricorn Holdings LLC and a 100% limited liability company interest in the Seadrill Member. Our directors have duties to manage OPCO in a manner beneficial to us. At the same time, our directors have a duty to manage OPCO in a manner beneficial to OPCO’s owners, including Seadrill. Our board of directors may resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of us or our unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to OPCO and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and OPCO or its subsidiaries, on the other hand; • the determination and timing of the amount of cash to be distributed to OPCO’s owners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of OPCO’s business; 26 Table of Contents • the decision as to whether OPCO should make asset or business acquisitions or dispositions, and on what terms; • the determination of the amount and timing of OPCO’s capital expenditures; • the determination of whether OPCO should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance maintenance or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs or otherwise; and • any decision we make to engage in business activities independent of, or in competition with, OPCO. Certain of our officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Certain of our officers are not required to work full-time on our affairs and also perform services for other companies, including Seadrill. For example, Rune Magnus Lundetræ, who is our Chief Financial Officer, also provides services in a similar capacity for Seadrill. In addition, Graham Robjohns, who is our Chief Executive Officer, also acts as the Chief Executive Officer of Golar LNG Partners LP. These other companies conduct substantial businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of our officers who also provide services to other companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Please read Item 6 “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Directors and Senior Management—Executive Officers—Allocation of Executive Officers’ Time.” Our operating agreement limits the duties the Seadrill Member and our directors and officers may have to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by the Seadrill Member or our directors and officers. Our operating agreement provides that our board of directors has the authority to oversee and direct our operations, management and policies on an exclusive basis. The Marshall Islands Limited Liability Company Act of 1996, or the Marshall Islands Act, states that a member or manager’s “duties and liabilities may be expanded or restricted by provisions in a limited liability company agreement.” As permitted by the Marshall Islands Act, our operating agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which the Seadrill Member and our directors and our officers may otherwise be held by Marshall Islands law. For example, our operating agreement: • provides that the Seadrill Member may make determinations or take or decline to take actions without regard to our or our unitholders’ interests. The Seadrill Member may consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or our unitholders. Decisions made by the Seadrill Member are made by its sole owner, Seadrill. Specifically, the Seadrill Member may decide to exercise its right to make a determination to receive common units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consent or withhold consent to any merger or consolidation of the company, appoint any directors or vote for the election of any director, vote or refrain from voting on amendments to our operating agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraw from the company, transfer (to the extent permitted under our operating agreement) or refrain from transferring its units, the Seadrill Member interest or incentive distribution rights or vote upon the dissolution of the company; • provides that our directors and officers are entitled to make other decisions in “good faith,” meaning they believe that the decision is in our best interests; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our board of directors may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that neither the Seadrill Member nor our officers or our directors will be liable for monetary damages to us, our members or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the Seadrill Member, our directors or officers or those other persons engaged in actual fraud or willful misconduct. 27 Table of Contents The standard of care applicable to an officer or director of Seadrill when that individual is acting in such capacity is, in a number of circumstances, stricter than the standard of care the same individual may have when acting as an officer or director of us. The fact that an officer or director of us may have a fiduciary duty to Seadrill does not, however, diminish the duty that such individual owes to us. Compliance by such officer or director of us with such individual’s duty to us should not result in a violation of such individual’s duties to Seadrill. In order to become a member of our company, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the operating agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Fees and cost reimbursements, which Seadrill Management and certain other subsidiaries of Seadrill determine for services provided to us, OPCO and its subsidiaries, will be substantial, will be payable regardless of our profitability and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the advisory, technical and administrative service agreements, OPCO pays fees for services provided to OPCO and its subsidiaries by certain subsidiaries of Seadrill, and OPCO and its subsidiaries reimburse these entities for all expenses they incur on their behalf. These fees and expenses include all costs and expenses incurred in providing certain advisory, technical and administrative services to OPCO’s subsidiaries. In addition, pursuant to the management and administrative services agreements, Seadrill Management and Seadrill UK Ltd. provide us with significant management, administrative, financial and other support services and/or personnel. We reimburse Seadrill Management and Seadrill UK Ltd. for the reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the provision of these services. In addition, we pay Seadrill Management and Seadrill UK Ltd a management fee equal to 5% of the costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing services to us. There is no cap on the amount of fees and cost reimbursements that OPCO and its subsidiaries may be required to pay such subsidiaries of Seadrill pursuant to the advisory, technical and administrative service agreements, or that we may be required to pay under the management and administrative services agreements. For a description of the advisory, technical and administrative service agreements and the management and administrative services agreements, please read Item 7 “Major Unitholder and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” The fees and expenses payable pursuant to the advisory, technical and administrative service agreements and the management and administrative services agreements will be payable without regard to our financial condition or results of operations. The payment of fees to and the reimbursement of expenses of Seadrill Management, Seadrill UK Ltd. and certain other subsidiaries of Seadrill could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions our unitholders. Our operating agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or the Seadrill Member, and even if public unitholders are dissatisfied, they will be unable to remove the Seadrill Member without Seadrill’s consent, unless Seadrill’s ownership interest in us is decreased; all of which could diminish the trading price of our common units. Our operating agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or the Seadrill Member. • The unitholders are unable to remove the Seadrill Member without its consent because the Seadrill Member and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove the Seadrill Member. As of December 31, 2012, Seadrill owned 75.7% of the outstanding common and subordinated units. 28 Table of Contents • If the Seadrill Member is removed without “cause” during the subordination period and units held by the Seadrill Member and Seadrill are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units, any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished, and the Seadrill Member will have the right to convert its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests based on the fair market value of those interests at the time. A removal of the Seadrill Member under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Any conversion of the Seadrill Member interest or incentive distribution rights would be dilutive to existing unitholders. Furthermore, any cash payment in lieu of such conversion could be prohibitively expensive. “Cause” is narrowly defined to mean that with respect to a director or officer, a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding such director or officer liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct, and with respect to the Seadrill Member, the Seadrill Member is in breach of the operating agreement or a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the Seadrill Member liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct against the Company or its members, in their capacity as such. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor business decisions, such as charges of poor management of our business by the directors appointed by the Seadrill Member, so the removal of the Seadrill Member because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the Seadrill Member’s decisions in this regard would most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. • Common unitholders are entitled to elect only four of the seven members of our board of directors. The Seadrill Member in its sole discretion appoints the remaining three directors. • Election of the four directors elected by unitholders is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our elected directors are selected each year. In addition, the directors appointed by the Seadrill Member serve for terms determined by the Seadrill Member. • Our operating agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders, to nominate directors and to acquire information about our operations as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. • Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the operating agreement provision providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 5% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 5% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. The voting rights of any such unitholders in excess of 5% will effectively be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders holding less than 5% of the voting power of all classes of units entitled to vote. The Seadrill Member, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors are not subject to this 5% limitation except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors. • There are no restrictions in our operating agreement on our ability to issue additional equity securities. The effect of these provisions may be to diminish the price at which the common units trade. The control of the Seadrill Member may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. The Seadrill Member may transfer its Seadrill Member interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. In addition, our operating agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of the Seadrill Member from transferring their respective limited liability company interests in the Seadrill Member to a third party. 29 Table of Contents If we cease to control OPCO, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control OPCO and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 because of our ownership of OPCO interests, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage, and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. Substantial future sales of our common units in the public market could cause the price of our common units to fall. We have granted registration rights to Seadrill and certain of its affiliates. These unitholders have the right, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering any of our common, subordinated or other equity securities owned by them or to include those securities in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other unitholders. As of December 31, 2012, Seadrill owned 14,752,525 common units and 16,543,350 subordinated units and all of the incentive distribution rights (through its ownership of the Seadrill Member). Following their registration and sale under an applicable registration statement, those securities will become freely tradable. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common units or other securities, these unitholders could cause the price of our common units to decline. The Seadrill Member, as the initial holder of all of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue additional common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the Seadrill Member’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors or holders of our common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. The Seadrill Member, as the initial holder of all of the incentive distribution rights, has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and the Seadrill Member has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by the Seadrill Member, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on the same percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, the Seadrill Member will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to the Seadrill Member on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the Seadrill Member would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that the Seadrill Member could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued additional common units to the Seadrill Member in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to the Seadrill Member’s incentive distribution rights. Please read Item 8 “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Incentive Distribution Rights.” 30 Table of Contents We may issue additional equity securities, including securities senior to the common units, without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the ownership interests of our existing unitholders. We may, without the approval of our unitholders, issue an unlimited number of additional units or other equity securities. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. During the subordination period, the common units will have the right to receive distributions of available cash from operating surplus in an amount equal to the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3875 per unit, plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution on the common units from prior quarters, before any distributions of available cash from operating surplus may be made on the subordinated units. Distribution arrearages do not accrue on the subordinated units. The purpose of the subordinated units is to increase the likelihood that during the subordination period there will be available cash from operating surplus to be distributed on the common units. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. Please read Item 8 “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Subordination Period.” In establishing cash reserves, our board of directors may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. OPCO’s operating agreements provide that our board of directors approves the amount of reserves from OPCO’s cash flow that will be retained by OPCO to fund its future operating and capital expenditures. Our operating agreement requires our board of directors to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating and capital expenditures. These reserves also affect the amount of cash available for distribution by OPCO to us and by us to our unitholders. In addition, our board of directors may establish reserves for distributions on the subordinated units, but only if those reserves do not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. As described above in “—Risks Inherent in Our Business—OPCO must make substantial capital and operating expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of its fleet, which will reduce cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted,” our operating agreement requires our board of directors each quarter to deduct from operating surplus estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, as opposed to actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, which could reduce the amount of available cash for distribution. The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our board of directors at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors. 31 Table of Contents The Seadrill Member has a limited call right that may require our common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time the Seadrill Member and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, the Seadrill Member will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price of our common units. The Seadrill Member is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of this limited call right. As a result, the holders of our common units may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Such common unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of December 31, 2012, Seadrill, which owns and controls the Seadrill Member, owned 59.5% of our common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units and the conversion of our subordinated units into common units, Seadrill will own 75.7% of our common units. We can borrow money to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of credit available to operate our business. Our operating agreement allows us to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions. Accordingly, if we have available borrowing capacity, we can make distributions on all our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings we can make for operating our business. For more information, please read Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under the Marshall Islands Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. The Marshall Islands Act provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, members who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated the Marshall Islands Act will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted members are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the company that are known to the assignee at the time it became members and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the operating agreement. Liabilities to members on account of their limited liability company interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the company are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. We have a limited history of operating as a separate publicly traded entity and incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded limited liability company. Our IPO closed on October 24, 2012. As a newly-public limited liability company, we are required to comply with the SEC’s reporting requirements and with corporate governance and related requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. We expect to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in complying with these and other applicable regulations. We anticipate that our incremental general and administrative expenses as a publicly traded limited liability company will be approximately $2.0 million annually, and will include costs associated with annual reports to unitholders, tax return preparation, investor relations, registrar and transfer agent fees, audit fees, legal fees, incremental director and officer liability insurance costs and officer and director compensation. 32 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies make our common units less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” These provisions include an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting and an exemption from compliance with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to our auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and our financial statements. We cannot predict if investors find our common units less attractive because we are relying on these exemptions. If some investors find our common units less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our unit price may be more volatile. In addition, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm is not be required to attest to the effectiveness of the our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for so long as we are an emerging growth company. For as long as we take advantage of the reduced reporting obligations, the information that we provide unitholders may be different than information provided by other public companies. We have been organized as a limited liability company under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of limited liability company law. Our limited liability company affairs are governed by our operating agreement and by the Marshall Islands Act. The provisions of the Marshall Islands Act resemble provisions of the limited liability company laws of a number of states in the United States, most notably Delaware. The Marshall Islands Act also provides that it is to be applied and construed to make it uniform with the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and, so long as it does not conflict with the Marshall Islands Act or decisions of the Marshall Islands courts, interpreted according to the non-statutory law (or case law) of the State of Delaware. There have been, however, few, if any, court cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the Marshall Islands Act, in contrast to Delaware, which has a fairly well-developed body of case law interpreting its limited liability company statute. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as the courts in Delaware. For example, the rights of our unitholders and the duties of the Seadrill Member and our directors and officers under Marshall Islands law are not as clearly established as under judicial precedent in existence in Delaware. As a result, unitholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Seadrill Member and our officers and directors than would unitholders of a similarly organized limited liability company in the United States. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the Seadrill Member is a Marshall Islands limited liability company, and our directors and officers generally are or will be non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of the Seadrill Member or our directors or officers. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Taxation of the Company,” and Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common units. 33 Table of Contents We will be subject to taxes, which will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Some of our subsidiaries will be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries, further reducing the cash available for distribution. In addition, changes in our operations could result in additional tax being imposed on us, OPCO or our, or OPCO’s subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. Please read Item 4 “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Taxation of the Company.” U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or at least 50% of the average value of its assets produce, or are held for the production of, “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. unitholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. Based on our current and projected method of operation, we believe that we were not a PFIC for our 2012 taxable year, and we expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for any future taxable year. We expect that more than 25% of our gross income for our 2012 taxable year and each future year will arise from such drilling contracts or other income that we believe should not constitute passive income, and more than 50% of the average value of our assets for each such year will be held for the production of such nonpassive income. Assuming the composition of our income and assets is consistent with these expectations, we believe that we should not be a PFIC for our 2012 taxable year or any future year. The conclusions that we have reached are not free from doubt and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court could disagree with our position. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, we cannot assure you that the nature of our operations will not change in the future or that we will not be a PFIC in the future. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year), our U.S. unitholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Please read Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders if we are treated as a PFIC. 