Item 1A. Risk factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe have a limited operating history. If we are unable to implement our business strategy as planned, we will be materially and adversely affected.We commenced operations approximately two years ago, and our business model is relatively untested and evolving. Businesses like ours that have a limited operating history present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. As a result we cannot predict our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We only began to generate residential rental revenue during 2013. In addition, our financial results have been largely attributable to purchasing non-performing loan and other rental-related assets at a discount, and the rates of such acquisitions may be uneven over periods of time and unpredictable due to market conditions, limited financial resources or other constraints.Our results for prior periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for any future period, and we may not have sufficient additional capital to implement our business model. Moreover, we expect that it will take time to determine success from loan resolution efforts and it could take as long as 24 months, and in some cases longer, for a significant portion of loans in any given portfolio to be converted into single-family rental properties or an underlying property to be liquidated or sold. Accordingly, if we are not able to generate sufficient cash flows from our loan modification and refinancing or other activities, we may not have cash available for distribution to our stockholders for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that our business will remain profitable or that our profitability will be sustainable. The earnings potential of our business is unproven, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We may not be able to implement our business strategy as planned, which could materially and adversely affect us.We are an early entrant in an emerging industry, and the long-term viability of our investment strategy on an institutional scale is unproven.Large-scale institutional investment in single-family residential homes for rent is a relatively recent phenomenon that has emerged out of the mortgage and housing crisis that began in late 2007. Prior to that time, single-family rental homes were generally not viewed as viable assets for investment on a large scale by institutional investors. Consequently, the long-term viability of the single-family rental property investment strategy on an institutional scale has not yet been proven. As an early entrant in this emerging industry, we are subject to the risk that single-family rental properties may not prove to be a viable long-term investment strategy on an institutional scale for a permanent capital vehicle. If it turns out that this investment strategy is not a viable one, we would be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to sustain the growth of our assets and our operations that we seek.Our failure to raise equity capital and/or obtain adequate debt financing could adversely affect our ability to increase our portfolio, manage our existing assets and generate shareholder returns.Our success has been, and will be, largely dependent on our ability to raise equity capital and obtain debt financing to increase our portfolio, manage our existing assets and generate attractive shareholder returns. We require significant financial resources to maintain our obligations under our debt facilities and to continue to acquire portfolios of mortgage loans and REO properties. If we are unable to continue to raise equity capital, or leverage our portfolio through repurchase facilities and/or securitizations, our current portfolio and cash from operations may become inadequate to meet our financial obligations.We use leverage as a component of our financing strategy in an effort to enhance our returns. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to timely access all funds available under our financing arrangements or obtain other debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. To qualify as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. As a result, our ability to retain earnings to fund acquisitions, property renovations or other capital expenditures will be limited.Limited availability of credit may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, thereby increasing financing costs and/or requiring us to accept financing with increasing restrictions. Our long-term ability to grow through additional investments will be limited if we cannot obtain additional debt or equity financing.15(table of contents)We may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders.There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient cash to make distributions to our stockholders. Our ability to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders depends on many factors, including the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy our investment strategy and our success in identifying and consummating such opportunities on favorable terms, the success of our loan resolution efforts, the ability of borrowers to refinance our loans with other lenders, our ability to sell modified loans on favorable terms, the availability of short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms, length of time required to convert a distressed loan into a single-family rental property, the level and expected movement of home prices, the occupancy rates and rent levels of properties, the restoration, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs, the level and volatility of interest rates, conditions in the financial, real estate, housing and mortgage markets and the economy, as to which no assurance can be given. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns or will not seek investments with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns or that the value of our investments in the future will not decline substantially. Existing and future government regulations may result in additional costs or delays, which could adversely affect the implementation of our investment strategy.We have leveraged our investments and expect to continue to do so, which may materially and adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.To the extent available, we intend to continue to leverage our investments through borrowings, the level of which may vary based on the particular characteristics of our investment portfolio and on market conditions. We have leveraged certain of our investments to date through our repurchase agreements. When we enter into any repurchase agreement, we sell securities or residential mortgage loans to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same assets back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the assets to the lender is less than the value of those assets, if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same assets back to us we could incur a loss on the transaction. In addition, repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions or for other reasons. If such counterparty determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. Should this occur, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses. In the event we are unable to satisfy a margin call, our counterparty may sell the collateral, which may result in significant losses to us. Our repurchase agreements generally require us to comply with various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, profitability and our ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth, and to maintain minimum amounts of cash or cash equivalents sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. We expect any future repurchase agreements or other financing arrangements will have similar provisions. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these requirements, we could be forced to sell additional investments at a loss which could materially and adversely affect us.Our repurchase agreements to finance sub-performing and non-performing loans are complex and difficult to manage. In part, this is due to the fact that our residential mortgage loan portfolios and single-family rental properties that will collateralize these repurchase agreements do not produce consistent cash flows and require specific activities to be performed at specific points in time in order to preserve value. Our inability to comply with the terms and conditions of these agreements could materially and adversely impact us. In addition, our outstanding repurchase agreements contain, and we expect any future repurchase agreements will contain, events of default, including payment defaults, breaches of financial and other covenants and/or certain representations and warranties, cross-defaults, servicer termination events, guarantor defaults, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and other events of default customary for these types of agreements. The remedies for such events of default are also customary for these types of agreements and include the acceleration of the outstanding principal amount, requirements that we repurchase loans collateralizing the financing, the liquidation by the lender of the assets then subject to the agreements and the avoidance of other repurchase transactions with us. Because our financing agreements will typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under our other agreements to also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase agreements could materially and adversely affect us.We have utilized repurchase facilities and securitization transactions to finance our portfolio and may in the future utilize other sources of borrowings, including bank credit facilities, warehouse lines of credit and structured financing arrangements, among others, each of which has similar risks to repurchase agreement financing and securitizations, including, but not limited to, covenant compliance, events of default, acceleration and margin calls. The percentage of leverage we employ, which could increase substantially in the future, varies depending on assets in our portfolios, our available capital, our ability to obtain and 16(table of contents)access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders’ and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of our investment portfolio’s cash flow. There can be no assurance that new sources of financing will be available to us in the future or that existing sources of financing will continue to be available to us. Our governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the investments acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations.If and when non-recourse long-term financing structures become available to us and are utilized, such structures expose us to risks which could result in losses to us.We may use securitization and other non-recourse long-term financing for our investments if, and to the extent, available. In such structures, our lenders typically have only a claim against the assets included in the securitizations rather than a general claim against us as an entity. Prior to any such financing, we seek to finance our investments with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. Conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of any such securitization less attractive to us. While we intend to retain the unrated equity component of securitizations and, therefore, still have exposure to any investments included in such securitizations, our inability to enter into such securitizations may increase our overall exposure to risks associated with direct ownership of such investments, including the risk of default.Our inability to refinance any short-term facilities would also increase our risk because borrowings thereunder would likely be recourse to us as an entity. If we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our investments on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price.Failure of Altisource to effectively perform its obligations under various agreements with us including the master services agreement, could materially and adversely affect us.Both AAMC and we have engaged Altisource to provide services. If for any reason Altisource is unable to perform the services described under these agreements at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, qualified alternate service providers may not be readily available on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect AAMC’s performance under the asset management agreement with us. Altisource’s failure to perform the services under these agreements with AAMC or us or our inability to retain qualified alternate service providers to replace and/or supplement Altisource could have a material adverse effect on us.Failure of our third party mortgage servicers to effectively perform its servicing obligations under our servicing agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.We are contractually obligated to service the residential mortgage loans that we acquire. We do not have any employees, servicing platform, licenses or technical resources necessary to service our acquired loans. Consequently, we have engaged mortgage servicers to service the non-performing and sub-performing loans we acquire. Through 2014, we had exclusively engaged Ocwen to service the residential mortgage loans in our portfolio. Ocwen has been and is subject to a number of pending regulatory investigations, inquiries, requests for information and legal proceedings that could result in adverse regulatory or other actions against Ocwen. As a result of these various difficulties faced by Ocwen, its debt and servicer ratings have been downgraded. Given the recent challenges and regulatory scrutiny faced by Ocwen, we have engaged additional alternate servicers to service our loans. We have begun to move certain loans to these new servicers to diversify its servicing service providers. However, a substantial number of the loans we own continue to be serviced by Ocwen. It is possible, even as we transfers all or a portion of our mortgage loan portfolio to such other servicers, the alternate servicers may not be able to service our loans or resolve our non-performing loans. If for any reason, our mortgage servicers are unable to service these loans at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, or if we fail to pay or otherwise default under the servicing agreements, and our mortgage servicers cease to act as our servicers, alternate servicers may not be readily available on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on usWe may incur significant costs in renovating our properties, and we may underestimate the costs or amount of time necessary to complete restorations.Before renting a property, we perform a detailed assessment, with an on-site review of the property, to identify the scope of renovation to be completed. Beyond customary repairs, we may undertake improvements designed to optimize overall property appeal and increase the value of the property. We expect that nearly all of our rental properties will require some level of 17(table of contents)renovation immediately upon their acquisition or in the future following expiration of a lease or otherwise. We may acquire properties that we plan to extensively renovate and restore. In addition, in order to reposition properties in the rental market, we will be required to make ongoing capital improvements and may need to perform significant renovations and repairs from time to time. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks inherent in property renovation, including potential cost overruns, increases in labor and materials costs, delays by contractors in completing work, delays in the timing of receiving necessary work permits and certificates of occupancy and poor workmanship. If our assumptions regarding the cost or timing of renovations across our properties prove to be materially inaccurate, it may be more difficult or take significantly more time than anticipated to develop and grow our single-family rental portfolio, which could materially and adversely affect us. Difficulties in selling REO properties and/or single-family rental properties could limit our flexibility and/or harm our liquidity.Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of our properties if we are found to have held or acquired the properties with the intent to resell, and this limitation may adversely affect our willingness to sell single-family rental properties under favorable conditions or if necessary for funding purposes. We typically contribute properties that will not meet our rental profile to our taxable REIT subsidiary in order to sell and generate gains or losses at the taxable REIT subsidiary upon such sales. In addition, our REO properties that we intend to sell can at times be difficult to dispose of quickly or at favorable prices. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to either sell properties that we deem unsuitable for rental or change or reduce the single-family rental properties in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our failure to sell or delays in selling our REO properties could potentially cause a strain on our liquidity, and we may be forced to reduce prices and/or continue to hold such REO properties, without leverage which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.A significant portion of the residential mortgage loans that we acquire are, or may become, sub-performing or non-performing loans, which increases our risk of loss.We acquire distressed residential mortgage loans where the borrower has failed to make timely payments of principal and/or interest. As part of the residential mortgage loan portfolios we purchase, we also may acquire performing loans that are or subsequently become sub-performing or non-performing. Under current market conditions, it is likely that many of these loans will have current loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100%, meaning the amount owed on the loan exceeds the value of the underlying real estate. Further, the borrowers on such loans may be in economic distress and/or may have become unemployed, bankrupt or otherwise unable or unwilling to make payments when due. Even though we typically pay less than the amount owed on these loans to acquire them, if actual results are different from our assumptions in determining the price for such loans, we may incur significant losses. There are no limits on the percentage of sub-performing or non-performing loans we may hold. Any loss we incur may be significant and could materially and adversely affect us.Many of our assets may be illiquid, and this lack of liquidity could significantly impede our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions or to realize the value at which such assets are carried if we are required to dispose of them.The distressed residential mortgage loans we acquire are generally illiquid. Illiquidity may result from the absence of an established market for the distressed residential mortgage loans, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on their resale, refinancing or other disposition. Such restrictions would interfere with subsequent sales of such loans or adversely affect the terms that could be obtained upon any disposition thereof.Residential mortgage loan modification and refinance programs, future legislative action, and other actions and changes may materially and adversely affect the supply of, value of and the returns on sub-performing and non-performing loans.Our business model is dependent on the acquisition of a steady supply of sub-performing and nonperforming loans, the success of our loan modification and other resolution efforts and the conversion of a significant portion of those loans to REO. The number of sub-performing and non-performing loans available for purchase may be reduced by uncertainty in the lending industry and the governmental sector and/or as a result of general economic improvement. Lenders may choose to delay foreclosure proceedings, renegotiate interest rates or refinance loans for borrowers who face foreclosure. In recent years, the federal government has instituted a number of programs aimed at assisting at-risk homeowners and reducing the number of properties going into foreclosure or going into non-performing status.For example, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Administration or “FHA” and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or “FDIC” has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including (i) the Home Affordable Modification Program or “HAMP”, which provides homeowners with 18(table of contents)assistance in avoiding defaults on residential mortgage loans, (ii) the Hope for Homeowners Program or “H4H Program”, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their residential mortgage loans into FHA-insured loans in order to avoid residential mortgage loan foreclosures and (iii) the Home Affordable Refinance Program which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments without new mortgage insurance, up to an unlimited loan-to-value ratio for fixed-rate mortgages. HAMP, the H4H Program and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification of residential mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans (through forbearance and/or forgiveness) and/or the rate of interest payable on the loans and/or to extend the payment terms of the loans. These loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing residential mortgage loans, may materially and adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our portfolio of sub-performing and non-performing loans.Other governmental actions may affect our business by hindering the pace of foreclosures. In recent periods, there has been a backlog of foreclosures, due to a combination of volume constraints and legal actions, including those brought by the U.S. Department of Justice, or the “DOJ,” HUD, State Attorneys General, the office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the “OCC,” and the Federal Reserve Board against mortgage servicers alleging wrongful foreclosure practices. Financial institutions have also been subjected to regulatory restrictions and limitations on foreclosure activity by the FDIC. Legal claims brought or threatened by the DOJ, HUD and 49 State Attorneys General against residential mortgage servicers and an enforcement action threatened by the OCC against residential mortgage servicers have both produced large settlements. A portion of the funds from each settlement will be directed to homeowners seeking to avoid foreclosure through mortgage modifications, and servicers are required to adopt specified measures to reduce mortgage obligations in certain situations. It is expected that the settlements will help many homeowners avoid foreclosures that would otherwise have occurred in the near-term. It is also possible that other residential mortgage servicers will agree to similar settlements. These developments will reduce the number of homes in the process of foreclosure and decrease the supply of properties that meet our investment criteria.In addition, the U.S. Congress and numerous state legislatures have considered, proposed or adopted legislation to constrain foreclosures, or may do so in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or “CFPB,” which supervises and enforces federal consumer protection laws as they apply to banks, credit unions and other financial companies, including mortgage servicers. It remains uncertain as to whether any of these CFPB or other related measures will have a significant impact on foreclosure volumes or what the timing or extent of that impact would be. If foreclosure volumes were to decline significantly, we may experience difficulty in finding target assets at attractive prices, which would materially and adversely affect us. Also, the number of families seeking rental housing might be reduced by such legislation, reducing rental housing demand for properties in our markets.We may be, or may become, subject to the regulation of various states, including licensing requirements and consumer protection statutes. Our failure to comply with any such laws, if applicable to us, would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.Certain jurisdictions require licenses to purchase, hold, enforce or sell residential mortgage loans. In the event that any such licensing requirement is applicable to us and we are not able to obtain such licenses in a timely manner or at all, our ability to implement our its business strategy could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect us.Certain jurisdictions require a license to purchase, hold, enforce or sell residential mortgage loans. We currently own our loans in Delaware statutory trusts with a nationally-chartered bank as the trustee. Therefore, we do not hold any such licenses. Because we have contributed our acquired sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans to wholly-owned trusts whose trustee is a nationally-chartered bank, we may be exempt from state licensing requirements. However, there is no assurance that we will ever seek or be required to obtain such licenses or, if obtained, that we will be able to maintain them. Our failure to obtain or maintain such licenses could restrict our ability to invest in loans in these jurisdictions if such licensing requirements become applicable. If our subsidiaries obtain the required licenses, any trust holding loans in the applicable jurisdictions may transfer such loans to such subsidiaries, resulting in these loans being held by a state-licensed entity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the requisite licenses in a timely manner or at all or in all necessary jurisdictions, or that the use of the trusts will reduce the requirement for licensing, any of which could limit our ability to invest in residential mortgage loans in the future and have a material adverse effect on us.The supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans may decline over time as a result of higher credit standards for new loans and/or general economic improvement and the prices for sub-performing and non-performing loans may increase, which could materially and adversely affect us.19(table of contents)Over the last several years, there has been an increase in supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans available for sale. However, in response to the economic crisis, the origination of jumbo, subprime, Alt-A and second lien residential mortgage loans has dramatically declined as lenders have increased their standards of credit-worthiness in originating new loans and fewer homeowners may go into sub-performing or non-performing status on their residential mortgage loans. In addition, the prices at which sub-performing and non-performing loans can be acquired may increase from time to time, or permanently, due to the entry of new participants into the distressed loan marketplace or a lower supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans in the marketplace. For these reasons, along with the general improvement in the economy, the supply of sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans that we may acquire may decline over time and could materially and adversely affect us.Competition in identifying and acquiring non-performing loans could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.We face competition from various sources for investment opportunities in sub-performing and non-performing loans including REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds, partnerships and developers. Some third-party competitors have substantially greater financial resources and access to capital than we do and may be able to accept more risk than it can. Competition from these companies may reduce the number of attractive sub-performing and non-performing loan investment opportunities available to us or increase the bargaining power of asset owners seeking to sell, which would increase the prices for sub-performing and non-performing loans. If such events occur, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect us. Given the existing competition, complexity of the market and requisite time needed to make such investments, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in acquiring investments that generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Furthermore, there is no assurance that such investments, once acquired, will perform as expected.Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase our costs and/or diminish our expected return on investments.Our ability to seek alternative resolutions for the underlying properties and, in certain cases, where appropriate, promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans plays a critical role in our valuation of the assets in which we invest and our expected return on those investments. We expect the timeline to convert acquired loans into single-family rental properties will vary significantly by loan. Certain of our acquired loans may already be in foreclosure proceedings, in which case conversion could be as soon as three to six months following acquisition, but in other cases conversion could take up to 24 months or longer. There are a variety of factors that may inhibit our ability, through our mortgage servicers, to foreclose upon a residential mortgage loan and get access to the real property within the timelines modeled as part of our valuation process. These factors include, without limitation: state foreclosure timelines and deferrals associated therewith (including with respect to litigation, bankruptcy and statute of limitations); unauthorized occupants living in the property; federal, state or local legislative action or initiatives designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures and that serve to delay the foreclosure process; HAMP and similar programs that require specific procedures to be followed to explore the refinancing of a residential mortgage loan prior to the commencement of a foreclosure proceeding; and continued declines in real estate values and sustained high levels of unemployment that increase the number of foreclosures and place additional pressure on the already overburdened judicial and administrative systems.In addition, certain issues, including “robo-signing,” have been identified throughout the mortgage industry that relate to affidavits used in connection with the residential mortgage loan foreclosure process. A substantial portion of our investments are, and in the future may be, sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans, many of which are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. There can be no assurance that similar practices have not been followed in connection with residential mortgage loans that are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. To the extent we determine that any of the loans we acquire are impacted by these issues, we may be required to re-commence the foreclosure proceedings relating to such loans, thereby resulting in additional delay that could have the effect of increasing our costs and/or diminishing our expected return on our investments. The uncertainty surrounding these issues could also result in legal, regulatory or industry changes to the foreclosure process as a whole, any or all of which could lengthen the foreclosure process and negatively impact our business.We may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting borrowers or the single-family rental properties in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.Our assets are not subject to any geographic diversification or concentration limitations. Entities that sell distressed mortgage loan portfolios may group the portfolios by location or other metrics that could result in a concentration of our portfolio by geography, single-family rental property characteristics and/or borrower demographics. Such concentration could increase the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergoing adverse developments. 20(table of contents)In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where the properties securing our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics, oversupply, reduced demand and other factors) may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 21% of our portfolio by UPB was concentrated in California and approximately 18% of our portfolio by UPB was concentrated in Florida. A material decline in the demand for single-family housing or rentals in these or other areas where we own assets may materially and adversely affect us. Lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among our investments.Short-term leases of residential property expose us more quickly to the effects of declining market rents.We anticipate that a majority of our leases to tenants of single-family rental properties will be for a term of two years or less. As these leases permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, we anticipate our rental revenues will be affected by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Short-term leases may result in high turnover, resulting in additional cost to renovate and maintain the property and lower occupancy levels. Because we have a limited operating history, our tenant turnover rate and related cost estimates may be less accurate than if we had more operating data upon which to base these estimates.We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant or other capital improvements, which could limit our ability to attract or replace tenants.When we acquire or otherwise take title to single-family properties or when tenants fail to renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, we will be required to expend funds for property restoration and leasing commissions in order to lease the property. If we have not established reserves or set aside sufficient funds for such expenditures, we may have to obtain financing from other sources, as to which no assurance can be given. We may also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to restore our properties. If we need to secure financing for capital improvements in the future but are unable to secure such financing on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable or unwilling to make capital improvements or may choose to defer such improvements. If this happens, our properties may suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property or existing tenants not renewing their leases. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, and our properties’ ability to generate revenue may be significantly impaired.Our revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and, because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed and some variable expenses may not decrease over time, we may not be able to adapt our cost structure to offset any declines in our revenue.Many of the expenses associated with our business, such as acquisition costs, restoration and maintenance costs, home owners’ association, or “HOA,” fees, personal and real property taxes, insurance, compensation and other general expenses are fixed and would not necessarily decrease proportionally with any decrease in revenue. Our assets also will likely require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditure. Our expenses, including capital expenditures, will be affected by, among other things, any inflationary increases, and cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. Certain expenses, such as HOA fees, taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are recurring in nature and may not decrease on a per-unit basis as our portfolio grows through additional property acquisitions. By contrast, our revenue is affected by many factors beyond our control, such as the availability and price of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in our markets. As a result, we may not be able to fully, or even partially, offset any increase in our expenses with a corresponding increase in our revenues. In addition, state and local regulations may require us to maintain our properties, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the potential benefit.Fair values of our mortgage loans are imprecise and may materially and adversely affect our operating results and credit availability, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect us.The values of our mortgage loans may not be readily determinable. We measure the fair value of our mortgage loans monthly, but the fair value at which our mortgage loans are recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. Ultimate realization of the value of a mortgage loan depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which a mortgage loan can be sold since market prices of mortgage loans can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. In certain cases, our estimation of the fair value of our mortgage loans includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of our mortgage loans are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If we were to liquidate a particular mortgage loan, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such mortgage loan was recorded. We could be materially and adversely affected by 21(table of contents)negative determinations that reduce the fair value of our mortgage loans, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.We value the properties underlying our mortgage loans and recognize unrealized gains in each period when our mortgage loans are transferred to real estate owned. The fair value of our residential properties is estimated using broker price opinions, or “BPOs,” provided by third-party brokers. BPOs are subject to the judgments of the particular broker formed by visiting the property, assessing general home values in the area, reviewing comparable listings and reviewing comparable completed sales. These judgments may vary among brokers and may fluctuate over time based on housing market activities and the influx of additional comparable listings and sales. Our results could be materially and adversely affected if the judgments used by the brokers prove to be incorrect or inaccurate.Challenges to the MERS® System could materially and adversely affect us.MERSCORP, Inc. is a privately held company that maintains an electronic registry, referred to as the MERS System, which tracks servicing rights and ownership of loans in the United States. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. or “MERS,” a wholly owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, Inc., can serve as a nominee for the owner of a residential mortgage loan and in that role initiate foreclosures and/or become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. We may choose to use MERS as a nominee. The MERS System is widely used by participants in the mortgage finance industry. Several legal challenges have been made disputing MERS’s legal standing to initiate foreclosures and/or act as nominee in local land records. These challenges could negatively affect MERS’s ability to serve as the mortgagee of record in some jurisdictions. In addition, where MERS is the mortgagee of record, it must execute assignments of mortgages, affidavits and other legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings. As a result, investigations by governmental authorities and others into the servicer foreclosure process deficiencies described under “—Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase our cost of doing business and/or diminish our expected return on investments” may impactMERS. Failures by MERS to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process could pose operational, reputational and legal risks that may materially and adversely affect us.AAMC utilizes analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks.Given the complexity of our investments and strategies, AAMC must rely heavily on models and data, including analytical models (both proprietary models developed by AAMC and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by third parties. Models and data are used to value investments or potential investments and also in connection with performing due diligence on our investments. In the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, we may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether.Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements we are subject to as a stand-alone reporting public company.We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, as amended. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act,” we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. To comply with these requirements, we may need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We have incurred, and expect to incur, additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and these expenses may be significant. If we are unable to implement additional controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the Exchange Act could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report thereon by our independent registered public accounting firm. These reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources.Changes in global economic and capital market conditions, including periods of generally deteriorating occupancy and real estate industry fundamentals, may materially and adversely affect us.There are risks to the ownership of real estate and real estate related assets, including decreases in residential property values, changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic and real estate market conditions as well as other factors 22(table of contents)particular to the locations of our investments. A prolonged recession and a slow recovery could materially and adversely affect us as a result of, among other items, the following:•joblessness or unemployment rates that adversely affect the local economy;•an oversupply of or a reduced demand for single-family rental properties for rent;•a decline in employment, or lack of employment growth;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases or fulfill their lease obligations;•a decline in rental rate which may be accentuated since we expect to have rent terms of two years or less;•rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs;•changes in interest rates, availability and terms of debt financing; and•economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses such as increases in property taxes, utilities and routine maintenance.These conditions could also adversely impact the financial condition and liquidity of the renters that will occupy our real estate properties and, as a result, their ability to pay rent to us.Suboptimal economics of real estate related insurance activities, or a failure to commence and/or grow the business of NewSource could adversely impact our investment in NewSource.We have invested $18.0 million in the non-voting preferred stock of NewSource. Despite the commencement in 2014 of NewSource’s title reinsurance business operations, NewSource determined that the economics of the initial business activities did not warrant the continuation of its initial reinsurance quota share agreement with an unrelated third party. NewSource therefore transferred all of the risk of claims and future losses underwritten to an unrelated third party for a price of $3.2 million.NewSource is continuing to evaluate its real estate related insurance and reinsurance strategy and considering related opportunities. There is no assurance that NewSource will be able to develop or grow its business strategy or operations, or engage in insurance and reinsurance activities at all. In any such event, the business model for NewSource would become challenged or the growth of NewSource would become hampered, which would adversely affect the economics of our investment in NewSource and/or NewSource’s ability to pay its preferred dividend to us and/or generate shareholder returns. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Increased inflation could have an adverse impact on interest rates, property management expenses and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rental and other revenue. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income without an accompanying reduction in our expenses. Accordingly, inflation or deflation may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Changes in applicable laws or noncompliance with applicable law could materially and adversely affect us.As an owner of real estate, we are required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord-tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws or regulations could expose us to liability.Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord-tenant laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the rehabilitation, use and operation of our single-family rental properties including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes.In addition, NewSource has registered as a Class 3A Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda by the BMA. Changes in Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and policies could result in restrictions on NewSource’s ability to pursue its business plans, issue reinsurance policies, distribute funds and execute its investment strategy. In addition, NewSource may become subject to regulation and supervision by insurance authorities in any other jurisdictions in which it operates. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on NewSource’s ability to do business or certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could subject NewSource to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material 23(table of contents)adverse effect on NewSource’s business and its ability to pay the dividend on our preferred stock. As a result, the value of our investment in NewSource could decline.Competition could limit our ability to lease single-family rental properties or increase or maintain rents.Our single-family rental properties, when acquired, will compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including rental apartments, condominiums and other single-family homes available for rent as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Our competitors’ single-family rental properties may be of better quality, in a more desirable location or have leasing terms more favorable than we can provide. In addition, our ability to compete and generate favorable returns depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, the financial condition and liquidity of current and prospective renters, availability and cost of capital, taxes and governmental regulations. Given significant competition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in acquiring or managing single-family rental properties that generate favorable returns.If rents in our markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with rising costs of operations, our operating results and cash available for distribution will decline.The success of our business model will substantially depend on conditions in the single-family rental property market in our geographic markets. Our asset acquisitions are premised on assumptions about, among other things, occupancy and rent levels. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our operating results and cash available for distribution will be lower than expected, potentially materially. Rental rates and occupancy levels have benefited in recent periods from macroeconomic trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate and mortgage markets in particular, including:•a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance a home purchase, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit;•economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates; and•reduced real estate values that challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment.If the current trend favoring renting rather than homeownership reverses, the single-family rental market could decline.The single-family rental market is currently significantly larger than in historical periods. We do not expect the favorable trends in the single-family rental market to continue indefinitely. Eventually, a strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, together with the large supply of foreclosed single-family rental properties, the current availability of low residential mortgage rates and government sponsored programs promoting home ownership, may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase undervalued housing properties and convert them to productive uses, the supply of single-family rental properties will decrease and the competition for tenants will intensify. A softening of the rental property market in our markets would adversely affect our operating results and cash available for distribution, potentially materially.Single-family rental properties that are subject to foreclosure or short-sales are subject to risks of theft, vandalism or other damage that could impair their value.When a single-family rental property is subject to foreclosure, it is possible that the homeowner may cease to maintain the property adequately, or that the property may be abandoned by the homeowner and become susceptible to theft or vandalism. Lack of maintenance, theft and vandalism can substantially impair the value of the property. To the extent we initiate foreclosure proceedings, some of our properties could be impaired.Contingent or unknown liabilities could materially and adversely affect us.Our acquisition activities are subject to many risks. We may acquire properties that are subject to unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to properties, unpaid real estate taxes, utilities or HOA charges for which a prior owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired properties and tax liabilities, among other things. In each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown or contingent liabilities or conditions. As a result, if any such liability were to arise relating to our properties, or if any adverse condition exists with respect to our properties that is in excess of our insurance coverage, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could materially and adversely affect us. The properties we acquire may also be subject to covenants, conditions or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such properties, including prohibitions on leasing or requirements to obtain the approval of 24(table of contents)HOAs prior to leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process and such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to operate such properties as we intend.The costs and amount of time necessary to secure possession and control of a newly acquired property may exceed our assumptions, which would delay our receipt of revenue from, and return on, the property.Upon acquiring a property, we may have to evict occupants who are in unlawful possession before we can secure possession and control of the property. The holdover occupants may be the former owners or tenants of a property, or they may be squatters or others who are illegally in possession. Securing control and possession from these occupants can be both costly and time-consuming. If these costs and delays exceed our expectations, our financial performance may suffer because of the increased expenses incurred or the unexpected delays in turning the properties into revenue-producing rental properties.Poor tenant selection and defaults by our tenants may materially and adversely affect us.Our success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified tenants for our properties. This will depend, in turn, upon our ability to screen applicants, identify good tenants and avoid tenants who may default. We will inevitably make mistakes in our selection of tenants, and we may rent to tenants whose default on our leases or failure to comply with the terms of the lease or HOA regulations could materially and adversely affect us. For example, tenants may default on payment of rent, make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements, make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities, make use of our properties for illegal purposes, damage or make unauthorized structural changes to our properties which may not be fully covered by security deposits, refuse to leave the property when the lease is terminated, engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances, disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores, fail to comply with HOA regulations, sub-let to less desirable individuals in violation of our leases or permit unauthorized persons to live with them. The process of evicting a defaulting tenant from a family residence can be adversarial, protracted and costly. Furthermore, some tenants facing eviction may damage or destroy the property. Damage to our properties may significantly delay re-leasing after eviction, necessitate expensive repairs or impair the rental revenue or value of the property. In addition, we will incur turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties, such as marketing expense and brokerage commissions, and will not collect revenue while the property is vacant. Although we will attempt to work with tenants to prevent such damage or destruction, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all or most cases. Such tenants will not only cause us not to achieve our financial objectives for the properties in which they live, but may subject us to liability, and may damage our reputation with our other tenants and in the communities where we do business.Eminent domain could lead to material losses on our investments.It is possible that governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which our properties are built in order to build roads or other infrastructure. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow us to recover only the fair value of the affected properties, which we believe may be interpreted to be substantially less than the actual value of the property. Several cities are also exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire residential loans to assist borrowers to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of single-family properties for sale in our markets. Any of these events can cause a material loss to us.A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on us.We will carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to our single-family rental properties on terms we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war or earthquake) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a single-family rental property or group of rental properties as well as the anticipated future revenues from such single-family rental property or group of properties. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with or court ordered damages to that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect us.A significant number of our single-family rental properties may be part of home owners’ associations. We and our renters will be subject to the rules and regulations of such home owners’ associations which may be arbitrary or restrictive and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation which may be costly.A significant number of our single-family rental properties, when acquired, may be subject to HOAs which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. Some of the HOAs that will govern our single-family rental properties may enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market or 25(table of contents)lease our single-family rental properties or require us to renovate or maintain such properties at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale or the use of specific construction materials to be used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes which, if met or exceeded, may cause us to incur additional costs to sell the affected single-family rental property and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Furthermore, many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and we may have renters who violate these HOA rules for which we may be liable as the property owner. Additionally, the boards of directors of the HOAs that will govern our single-family rental properties may not make important disclosures or may block our access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. We may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with certain HOA rules before acquiring a single-family rental property, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such property, if possible, prevent us from renting such property or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such property. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect us.We rely on information supplied by prospective tenants in managing our business.We rely on information supplied to us by prospective tenants in their rental applications as part of our due diligence process to make leasing decisions, and we cannot be certain that this information is accurate. In particular, we rely on information submitted by prospective tenants regarding household income, tenure at current job, number of children and size of household. Moreover, these applications are submitted to us at the time we evaluate a prospective tenant, and we do not require tenants to provide us with updated information during the terms of their leases, notwithstanding the fact that this information can, and frequently does, change over time. Even though this information is not updated, we will use it to evaluate the overall average credit characteristics of our portfolio over time. If tenant-supplied information is inaccurate or our tenants’ creditworthiness declines over time, we may make poor leasing decisions and our portfolio may contain more credit risk than we believe. We are subject to the risks of securities laws liability and related civil litigation.We may be subject to risk of securities litigation and derivative actions from time to time as a result of being publicly traded. For example, in January 2015, a purported shareholder filed a derivative action against the members of our Board of Directors, us and AAMC in connection with our asset management agreement with AAMC. For more information concerning this matter, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” While we and our Board of Directors deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the actions initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of their resolution. The range of possible resolutions could include determinations and judgments against us or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such investigations and suits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results.We likely will incur costs due to litigation, including but not limited to, class actions, tenant rights claims and consumer demands.There are numerous tenants’ rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country. As we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues and displaced home ownership. Some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues as more entities engage in the single-family rental property market. Additional actions that may be targeted at us include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of a single-family rental property. While we intend to conduct our rental business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take or what remedies they may seek. Any of such claims may result in a finding of liability that may materially and adversely affect us.Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our business operations and impose on us significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect us.26(table of contents)Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we, through AAMC, Altisource or our mortgage servicers, may acquire and store sensitive data on our network, such as our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our prospective and current tenants. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect us.We may incur substantial costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our single-family rental properties (including in some cases, asbestos-containing construction materials, lead-based paints, contaminants migrating from offsite sources and natural substances such as methane, mold and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we may have for such events, which could materially and adversely affect us. The presence of such substances or the failure to properly remediate the contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected single-family rental property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination, which may also adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected single-family rental property.Our properties will be subject to property and other taxes that may increase over time.We will be responsible for property taxes for our single-family rental properties, when acquired which may increase as tax rates change and properties are reassessed by taxing authorities. If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authorities may place a lien on the property and the property may be subject to a tax sale. Increases in property taxes would also adversely affect our yield from rental properties. Any such occurrence may materially and adversely affect us.Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationships We could have conflicts with AAMC and our Directors or management could have conflicts of interest due to their relationship with AAMC, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us.We have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in a substantial amount of business with AAMC. Conflicts may arise between AAMC and us because of our ongoing agreement with AAMC and because of the nature of our respective businesses. Prior to his stepping down from the Board of Directors in January 2015, our former Chairman was also the Chairman of AAMC, Altisource and Ocwen. As a result, he had obligations to us as well as to these other entities, which could have resulted in conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and AAMC, Altisource or Ocwen, as the case may be. Our former Chairman also currently has substantial investments in AAMC, Altisource and Ocwen, and certain of our other officers own stock or options in one or more of AAMC, Altisource and Ocwen. Such ownership interests may have created or appeared to create conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and AAMC, Altisource and Ocwen, as the case may be.Each of our executive officers is also an executive officer of AAMC and has interests in our relationship with AAMC that may be different than the interests of our stockholders. As a result, they may have obligations to us and AAMC and could have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and AAMC. In particular, these individuals have a direct interest in the financial success of AAMC which may encourage these individuals to support strategies in furtherance of the financial success of AAMC that could potentially adversely impact us.27(table of contents)We follow policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with AAMC, including, where necessary, certain of our officers recusing themselves from discussions on, and approvals of transactions with AAMC). We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (independent directors constitute a majority of our Board of Directors), and we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with AAMC. Although we continue to seek ways to lessen many of these conflicts of interest, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with AAMC, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with AAMC.Our Board of Directors has approved a very broad investment policy and guidelines for AAMC and will not review or approve each investment decision. We may change our investment policy and guidelines without stockholder consent, which may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.AAMC is authorized to follow a very broad investment policy and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. In the future, AAMC may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. Our Board of Directors will periodically review our investment policy and our investment portfolio but will not review or approve each proposed investment by AAMC unless it falls outside the scope of our previously approved investment policy or constitutes a related party transaction. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Directors will rely primarily on information provided to it by AAMC. Furthermore, AAMC may use complex strategies. Transactions entered into by AAMC may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our Board of Directors. In addition, we may change our investment policy and targeted asset classes at any time without the consent of our stockholders, and this could result in our making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than, our current investments or the investments currently contemplated. Changes in our investment policy and targeted asset classes may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, counterparty risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, which could materially and adversely affect us.We depend on AAMC as our Manager. We may not be able to retain our exclusive engagement of AAMC under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect us. Termination of AAMC by us without cause is difficult and costly and our agreements with Ocwen and Altisource may simultaneously terminate or be terminated, as applicable.Our success is dependent upon our relationships with and the performance of AAMC and its key personnel. Key personnel may leave AAMC, may become distracted by adverse financial or operational issues in connection with AAMC’s business and other activities or may fail to perform for any reason. AAMC has agreed not to provide the same or substantially similar services to any other party so long as we have on hand an average of $50 million in capital available for investment over the previous two fiscal quarters. Notwithstanding the foregoing, AAMC may engage in any other business or render similar or different services to others, including, without limitation, the direct or indirect sponsorship or management of other investment based accounts or commingled pools of capital, however structured, having an investment strategy similar to ours, so long as its services to us are not impaired thereby. In the event AAMC provides its services to a competitor, it may be difficult for us to secure a suitable replacement to AAMC on favorable terms or at all or maintain our engagement of AAMC. In the event that the asset management agreement is terminated for any reason or AAMC is unable to retain its key personnel, it may also be difficult for us to secure a suitable replacement to AAMC on favorable terms, or at all. We are unable to terminate the asset management agreement during the first two years of its term except “for cause” as defined therein. In the event we terminate the asset management agreement without cause or AAMC terminates the asset management agreement due to our default in the performance of any material term of the asset management agreement, we will be required to pay a significant termination fee equal to three times the average annual incentive management fee earned by AAMC during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the date of termination. Furthermore, if the asset management agreement expires or is earlier terminated, the Ocwen services agreement and the Altisource support agreement and trademark license agreement automatically terminate; and if the asset management agreement is terminated without cause, then Altisource has the right to terminate its master services agreement with us. The occurrence of any of the above described events could materially and adversely affect us.Our directors have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours.Our directors may have other investments and business activities in addition to their interest in, and responsibilities to, us. Under the provisions of our Charter and our bylaws (the “Bylaws”), our directors have no duty to abstain from exercising the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours or employ or otherwise engage any of the other directors. If any of our directors who are also directors, officers or employees of any or any other company acquires knowledge of a 28(table of contents)corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity outside of his capacity as one of our directors, then our Bylaws provide that such director will be permitted to pursue that corporate opportunity independently of us, so long as the director has acted in good faith. Our Bylaws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, such a director will be deemed to have satisfied his fiduciary duties to us and will not be liable to us for pursuing such a corporate opportunity independently of us. This may create conflicts of interest between us and certain of our directors and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our stockholders. As of this date, none of our Directors is directly involved as a director, officer or employee of a business that competes with us, but there can be no assurance that will remain unchanged in the future.Risks Related to Our Qualification as a REITFailure to qualify as a REIT could materially and adversely affect us.We made an election to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended December 31, 2013. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Moreover, our qualification and taxation as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the federal income tax laws. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that our actual results of operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because:•we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income;•we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax to a greater extent and possibly increased state and local taxes; and•unless we are entitled to relief under certain federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions.As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Our tax position with respect to the accrual of interest and market discount income with respect to distressed mortgage loans involves risk.We do not accrue interest income or market discount on defaulted or delinquent loans when certain criteria are satisfied. The criteria generally relate to whether those amounts are uncollectible or of doubtful collectability. If the Internal Revenue Service were to challenge this position successfully, we could be subject to entity level excise tax as a result of “deficiency dividends” that we may be required to pay to our stockholders at the time of such an adjustment to our income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return.To qualify as a REIT, we are required at all times to satisfy certain tests relating to, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, our financing, hedging and investment strategies, the ownership of our stock and amounts we distribute to our stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may preclude us from certain financing or hedging strategies or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return. For example, we may be required to pay distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution.Compliance with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially adversely affect us.To qualify as a REIT, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of our assets must consist of qualified real estate assets, cash, cash items and government securities. In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Except for securities that qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test above and investments in our qualified REIT subsidiaries and our taxable REIT subsidiaries, our investment in the value of any one issuer’s securities may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets, and we may not own more than 10% of the total vote or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, except, in the case of the 10% value test, certain “straight debt” securities. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may be forced to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, potentially at a loss, which could materially and adversely affect us.29(table of contents)Failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.The IRS may deem the gains from sales of our properties to be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax.From time to time, we may be forced to sell properties that do not meet our investment objectives or we may need to sell properties or other assets to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, to satisfy other REIT requirements or for other purposes. The IRS may deem one or more sales of our properties to be “prohibited transactions.” If the IRS takes the position that we have engaged in a “prohibited transaction” (i.e., if we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), the gain we recognize from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to qualify for the safe harbor. We do not intend to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business; however, there is no assurance that our position will not be challenged by the IRS especially if we make frequent sales or sales of property in which we have short holding periods.The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.Securitizations by us or our subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes, resulting in “excess inclusion income.” As a REIT, so long as we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as non-U.S. stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt U.S. stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the excess inclusion income. In the case of a stockholder that is a REIT, a regulated investment company, or RIC, common trust fund or other pass-through entity, our allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of any excess inclusion income. Because this tax generally would be imposed on us, all of our stockholders, including stockholders that are not disqualified organizations, generally would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A RIC, or other pass-through entity owning our stock in record name will be subject to tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. Moreover, we could face limitations in selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. Finally, if we were to fail to maintain our REIT qualification, any taxable mortgage pool securitizations would be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes that could not be included in any consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions.In the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund our distributions or to make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution.Our Board of Directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders, and the amount of such distributions may be limited. In the future, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund our distributions or to make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution. Our Board of Directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors, including our historical and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, financing covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification, applicable law and other factors, as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. To the extent that we are required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, we could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent we may have to raise equity capital, we may be unable to do so at attractive prices, on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 30(table of contents)Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to tax liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us.Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise tax or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more of the relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of “dealer property,” we may also move or hold some of our assets or conduct activities through a TRS. In addition, if we lend money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Furthermore, the Code imposes a 100% tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. We will structure our transaction with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm’s length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% tax. Any such additional tax liabilities would have an adverse effect on us.Generally, ordinary dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for reduced U.S. federal income tax rates.The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for “qualifying dividends” payable by U.S. corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 23.8%, including the 3.8% Medicare tax. However, ordinary dividends payable by REITs are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and generally are taxed at ordinary income rates (the maximum individual rate being 39.6%).We may be subject to legislative or regulatory tax changes that could materially and adversely affect us.At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by any such change in or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.Risks Related to Our Organization and StructureOur rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests.Under Maryland law, generally, a director will not be liable if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our Charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:•actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or•active and deliberate dishonesty that is established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action.Our Charter and Bylaws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our Bylaws require us to indemnify each director and officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our Charter and Bylaws or that might exist with other companies.Our Charter may limit or otherwise discourage a takeover or business combination that could otherwise benefit our stockholders.Our Charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our Board of Directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock. A person that did not acquire more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock may become subject to our Charter restrictions if 31(table of contents)repurchases by us cause such person’s holdings to exceed 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common or capital stock. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our Board of Directors will be void or will result in those shares being transferred to a charitable trust, and the person who acquired such excess shares will not be entitled to any distributions thereon or to vote those excess shares. Our 9.8% ownership limitation may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may also, without stockholder approval, amend our Charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common or preferred stock, and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional shares or establish a series of common or preferred stock that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our shares, even if stockholders believe that a change in control is in their interest. These provisions, along with the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our Charter and certain provisions of Maryland law described below, could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, preventing our stockholders from realizing a potential premium over the market price of our stock in a proposed acquisition.Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporate Law, or "MGCL," may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Subject to limitations, the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock within the last two years. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation (excluding the shares held by the interested stockholder or its affiliate the business combination is to be effected) . These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as described under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person. There is no assurance that our Board of Directors will not supersede this resolution in the future.The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” (generally defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) of a Maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter (excluding the control shares in question).Our Bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors (which we have). These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our Charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL allowing vacancies on our Board of Directors to be filled only by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors in office.32(table of contents)We could be materially and adversely affected if we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.We rely on the exception from the Investment Company Act set forth in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which excludes from the definition of investment company “any person who is not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in one or more of the following businesses… (C) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” The SEC Staff generally requires that, for the exception provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) to be available, at least 55% of an entity’s assets be comprised of mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, also known as “qualifying interests,” and at least another 25% of the entity’s assets must be comprised of additional qualifying interests or real estate-type interests (with no more than 20% of the entity’s assets comprised of miscellaneous assets). We believe that our $18.0 million investment in NewSource does not meet the definition of “qualifying interest.” Any significant acquisition by us of non-real estate assets without the acquisition of substantial real estate assets could cause us to meet the definitions of an “investment company.” If we are deemed to be an investment company, we could be required to dispose of our NewSource investment or a portion thereof, potentially at a loss, in order to qualify for the 3(c)(5)(C) exception. We may also be required to register as an investment company if we are unable to dispose of the disqualifying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on us.In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release which indicated that the SEC is reviewing whether issuers who own certain mortgage related investments which rely on the exception from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C), should continue to be allowed to rely on such exception from registration. We cannot provide you with any assurance that the outcome of the SEC’s review will not require us to register under the Investment Company Act. If we are determined to be an investment company, and we fail to qualify for this exception from registration as an investment company or the SEC determines that companies that engage in businesses similar to ours are no longer able to rely on this exception, we may be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.Registration under the Investment Company Act would require us to comply with a variety of substantive requirements that impose, among other things:•limitations on capital structure;•restrictions on specified investments;•restrictions on leverage or senior securities;•restrictions on unsecured borrowings;•prohibitions on transactions with affiliates;•compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses.If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we could be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. Registration with the SEC as an investment company would be costly, would subject us to a host of complex regulations and would divert attention from the conduct of our business, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, if we purchase or sell any real estate assets to avoid becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our net asset value, the amount of funds available for investment and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our Common StockThe market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.The price at which our common stock trades has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many things, including but not limited to:•variations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition;•changes in, or the failure to meet, our financial estimates or those of securities analysts;•the amount and timing of any cash distributions;•actions or announcements by our competitors;•potential conflicts of interest, or the discontinuance of our strategic relationships, with AAMC, Altisource and Ocwen;•actual or anticipated accounting problems;•adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;33(table of contents)•regulatory actions;•changes in the market outlook for the real estate, mortgage or housing markets;•technology changes in our business;•changes in interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield;•future equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur;•actions by our stockholders;•speculation in the press or investment community;•general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets;•failure to maintain the listing of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange;•failure to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT;•failure to maintain our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act;•changes in accounting principles;•passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and•departure of AAMC’s, and therefore our, key personnel.The market prices of securities of public REITs have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the market price of our common stock.Furthermore, our small size and different investment characteristics may not continue to appeal to our investor base, and they may seek to dispose of large amounts of our common stock. There is no assurance that there will be sufficient buying interest to offset those sales, and, accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be depressed and/or experience periods of high volatility.The availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain.We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year in order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through quarterly cash distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report.Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, will determine the amount and timing of any distributions. In making such determinations, our Board of Directors will consider all relevant factors, including, without limitation, the amount of cash available for distribution, capital expenditures and general operational requirements. Our Board of Directors will also consider our ability to successfully modify and refinance or sell distressed loans or convert them into performing single-family rental properties, and the timing thereof, and our historical and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, any financing covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification, applicable law and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We intend over time to make regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common stock. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and the funds generated by our operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such cash in excess of our REIT taxable income for working capital. We cannot assure you how long it may take to generate sufficient available cash flow to fund distributions, nor can we assure you that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions to you. With a limited operating history, we cannot predict the amount of distributions you may receive, and we may be unable to make, maintain or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Because we may receive rents and income from our properties at various times during our fiscal year, distributions paid may not reflect our income earned in that particular distribution period. The amount of cash available for distribution will be affected by many factors, including, without limitation, the amount of time it takes for us to deploy the net proceeds from this offering into our target assets, the amount of income we will earn from those investments, the amount of our operating expenses and many other variables. Actual cash available for distribution may vary substantially from our expectations.While we intend to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows, in the future we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity to make distributions to our stockholders, which, if not available on favorable terms, or at all, may require us to eliminate or otherwise reduce such distributions or to make a portion of such distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution. In the event we are unable to consistently fund future quarterly 34(table of contents)distributions to our stockholders entirely from distributable cash flows, the market price of our common stock may be negatively impacted.The incurrence or issuance of debt, which ranks senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity or equity-related securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of making distributions, periodically or upon liquidation, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.We have incurred debt and may in the future incur or issue additional debt or issue equity or equity-related securities. Upon our liquidation, lenders and holders of our debt and holders of our preferred stock will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. Any future incurrence or issuance of debt will increase our interest cost and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are not required to offer any additional equity securities to existing common stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional issuances of common stock, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including limited partnership interests in our operating partnership), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and such issuances, or the perception of such issuances, may reduce the market price of our common stock. Our preferred stock, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to common stockholders. Because our decision to incur or issue debt or issue equity or equity-related securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts. Thus, common stockholders bear the risk that our future incurrence or issuance of debt or issuance of equity or equity-related securities will adversely affect the market price of our common stock.An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher distribution rate on shares of our common stock or seek alternative investments paying higher distributions or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of shares of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on shares of our common stock as market rates on our interest-bearing instruments such as bonds rise. In addition, to the extent we have variable rate debt, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.