Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Part II, Item 7. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our product categories face a high level of competition, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. We face significant competition in each of our product categories. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and our ability to identify and satisfy consumer tastes and preferences. We believe that our brands have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories, and their success has attracted competition from other food and beverage companies that produce branded products, as well as from private label competitors. Some of our competitors, such as Groupe Danone, General Mills, Inc., Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Nestle S.A., Chiquita Brands International, Inc. and Dole Food Company, Inc. have substantial financial and marketing resources. These competitors and others may be able to introduce innovative products more quickly or market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than we have forecasted and could cause us to lose sales. We also compete, particularly in our premium dairy and organic greens and produce categories, with producers of non-organic products, which usually have lower production costs. As a result, non-organic producers may be able to offer conventional products to customer at lower costs than organic products. This could cause us to lower our prices, resulting in lower profitability or, in the alternative, cause us to lose market share if we fail to lower prices. Furthermore, private label competitors are generally able to sell their products at lower prices because private label products typically have lower marketing costs than their branded counterparts. If our products fail to compete successfully with other branded or private label offerings in the industry, demand for our products and our sales volumes could be negatively impacted. Additionally, due to high levels of competition in our product categories, certain of our key retailers may demand price concessions on our products or may become more resistant to price increases for our products. Increased price competition and resistance to price increases have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy for our brands on a timely basis or at all. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to implement our growth strategy of leveraging our existing brands and products to drive increased sales. Our ability to implement this strategy depends, among other things, on our ability to: • enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third-party retailers and other potential distributors of our products; • compete successfully in the product categories in which we choose to operate; • introduce new and appealing products and innovate successfully on our existing products; • develop and maintain consumer interest in our brands; 21 Table of Contents • increase our brand recognition and loyalty; and • enter into strategic arrangements with third-party growers and other providers to supply our necessary raw materials. We may not be able to implement this growth strategy successfully, and our sales and income growth rates may not be sustainable over time. Our sales and results of operations will be negatively affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy or if we invest resources in a growth strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products could decline. Consumer tastes and preferences are difficult to predict and evolve over time. Demand for our products depends on our ability to identify and offer products that appeal to these shifting preferences. Factors that may affect consumer tastes and preferences include: • dietary trends and increased attention to nutritional values, such as the sugar, fat, protein, fiber or calorie content of different foods and beverages; • concerns regarding the health effects of specific ingredients and nutrients, such as sugar, other sweeteners, dairy, soybeans, nuts, oils, vitamins, fiber and minerals; • concerns regarding the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people; and • increasing awareness of the environmental and social effects of product production. If consumer demand for our products declines, our sales volumes and our business could be negatively affected. We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims, which could harm our reputation, force us to recall products and incur substantial costs. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, misbranding, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, including environmental, health, and safety requirements, or in the event our products cause injury, illness, or death. For example, our organic greens and produce products are subject to quality control processes, including washing, but it is not possible to ensure that the products are free from pathogenic organisms because the products are not pasteurized. In the fall of 2006, a third party recalled certain packaged fresh spinach sold to Earthbound Farm and others due to contamination by E. coli O157:H7. Although Earthbound Farm maintained insurance to cover recall losses, the insurance did not cover all losses incurred by this event and the company had a significant insurance deductible before receiving insurance proceeds. In addition, our product advertising could make us the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including the consumer protection statutes of some states, or laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, we were named in a putative class action mislabeling complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California in September 2011, which was followed by similar actions filed in five additional jurisdictions. All of these suits allege generally that we lack scientific substantiation for certain product claims related to our Horizon Organic products supplemented with DHA Omega-3. A significant product liability, consumer fraud, or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall would negatively impact our profitability. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. Even if a product 22 Table of Contents liability, consumer fraud, or other claim is found to be without merit or is otherwise unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories that are promoted as having strong health and wellness credentials. Any loss of consumer confidence in our product ingredients or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome. The loss of any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and its subsidiaries, including Sam’s Club, accounted for 17.5% of our total net sales in 2013, and our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for 51% of our total net sales in 2013 (in each case excluding sales by Earthbound Farm). We do not generally enter into written agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. In addition, our customers sometimes award contracts based on competitive bidding, which could result in lower profits for contracts we win and the loss of business for contracts we lose. The loss of any large customer for an extended period of time could negatively affect our sales and results of operations. Erosion of the reputation of one or more of our leading brands could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. The majority of our net sales derive from sales of our branded products and, in recent years, growth in our business has resulted primarily from the strength of these products. Our financial success is directly dependent on consumer and customer perception of our brands, including Silk, International Delight, LAND O LAKES, Horizon Organic, Earthbound Farm, Alpro, and Provamel. The success of our brands may suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers or if consumer or customer perceptions of our brands or our products change unfavorably. In addition, the reputation of our brands may suffer if any trademarks associated with our products are perceived negatively by consumers or customers. For example, certain of our products are marketed under trademarks we have licensed from third parties, such as LAND O LAKES, Almond Joy, Cold Stone Creamery, Cinnabon, Dunkin Donuts, Green Mountain Coffee, Hershey’s, and YORK, and we are unable to control the quality of other products that third parties produce and market under those trademarks and trade names. Our results of operations could be negatively affected if the reputation of one or more of our brands suffers damage due to real or perceived quality issues with our products, or if we are found to have violated any applicable laws or regulations. We may not be able to successfully complete strategic acquisitions, establish joint ventures, or integrate brands that we acquire. We have grown and intend to continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of new brands and the establishment of joint ventures in the United States, in Europe, and globally. We cannot be certain that we will successfully be able to: • identify suitable acquisition candidates or joint venture partners and accurately assess their value, growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities, and potential profitability; • secure regulatory clearance for our acquisitions and joint ventures; • negotiate acquisitions and joint ventures on terms acceptable to us; or • integrate any acquisitions that we complete. Acquired companies or brands may not achieve the level of sales or profitability that justify our investment in them, or an acquired company may have unidentified liabilities for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial and other challenges, including the existence of unknown disputes, liabilities, or contingencies and changes in the industry, location, or regulatory or political environment in which these investments are located, that may arise after entering into such arrangements. 23 Table of Contents The success of any acquisitions we complete will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired brands or products into our existing operations. For example, we recently acquired Earthbound Farm and are working to effectively manage the operations of the acquired business with our existing business and ensure consistent standards of operations. We may experience difficulty entering new categories or geographies, integrating new products into our product mix, integrating an acquired brand’s distribution channels and sales force, achieving anticipated cost savings, or retaining key personnel and customers of the acquired business. Integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations requires management resources and may divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, or in executing strategies and business plans related to our joint ventures, our business could be negatively affected. We may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity, equity-linked, or debt securities to pay for any such acquisition, any of which could adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Dean Foods in connection with our initial public offering contains limitations on our ability to issue equity or equity-linked securities and incur debt. In order to maintain the tax-free status of Dean Foods’ spin-off of us, for a period of two years after the Distribution we are subject to some restrictions in our ability to issue, sell, redeem, or repurchase stock or other securities (including securities convertible into our stock) and to effect a merger of the Company or one of our subsidiaries into another entity. Our continued success depends on our ability to innovate successfully and to innovate on a cost-effective basis. A key element of our growth strategy is to introduce new and appealing products and to successfully innovate on our existing products. Success in product development is affected by our ability to anticipate consumer preferences, to leverage our R&D technical capabilities, and to utilize our management’s ability to launch new or improved products successfully and on a cost-effective basis. Furthermore, the development and introduction of new products requires substantial R&D and marketing expenditures, which we may not be able to finance or which we may be unable to recover if the new products do not achieve commercial success and gain widespread market acceptance. If we are unsuccessful in our product innovation efforts and demand for our existing products declines, our business could be negatively affected. Reduced availability of raw materials and other inputs, as well as increased costs for our raw materials and other inputs, could adversely affect us. Our business depends heavily on raw materials and other inputs, such as conventional and organic raw milk, butterfat, almonds, organic and non-genetically modified (“non-GMO”) soybeans, sweeteners, and organic salad greens and produce, used in the production of our products and commodities, such as packaging, utilities, natural gas, resin and petroleum-based products, used in the packaging and distribution of our products. Our raw materials are generally sourced from third-party suppliers, and we are not assured of continued supply, pricing, or exclusive access to raw materials from any of these suppliers. In addition, a substantial portion of our raw materials are agricultural products, which are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frost, earthquakes, and pestilence. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters also can lower dairy and crop yields and reduce supplies of these ingredients or increase their prices. Other events that adversely affect our third-party suppliers and that are out of our control could also impair our ability to obtain the raw materials and other inputs that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we desire. Such events include problems with our suppliers’ businesses, finances, labor relations, costs, production, insurance, and reputation. Over the past several years, we have experienced increased costs as a result of weather conditions and other events outside our and our suppliers’ control and this may continue given recent weather conditions, which may negatively affect our business. The organic ingredients (including milk, organic salad greens and produce, other dairy-related products, and soybeans) and non-GMO ingredients for our products are less plentiful and available from fewer suppliers than 24 Table of Contents their conventional counterparts. Competition with other manufacturers in the procurement of organic and non-GMO product ingredients may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic and non-GMO products increases. In addition, the dairy industry continues to experience periodic imbalances between supply and demand for organic raw milk. Industry regulation and the costs of organic farming compared to costs of conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. Oversupply levels of organic raw milk can increase competitive pressure on our products and pricing, while supply shortages can cause product shortages and higher costs to us. Cost increases in raw materials and other inputs could cause our profits to decrease significantly compared to prior periods, as we may be unable to increase our prices to offset the increased cost of these raw materials and other inputs. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other inputs for our products or offset any increased costs for such raw materials and inputs, our business could be negatively affected. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Agricultural products are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including drought and temperature extremes, floods and windstorms, which are quite common but difficult to predict. For example, much of the state of California is experiencing extreme drought, which could impact the availability and cost of our raw materials, including almonds. Agricultural products also are vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Unfavorable growing conditions caused by these factors can reduce both crop size and crop quality and, in extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost. These factors may result in lower sales volume and, in the case of farms we manage, increased costs due to expenditures for additional farming techniques, the repair of infrastructure and the replanting of damaged or destroyed crops. Incremental costs, including transportation, may also be incurred if we need to find alternate short-term supplies of lettuce or other produce from other growers. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain sufficient internal production capacity or to enter into co-packing agreements on terms that are beneficial for us may result in our inability to meet customer demand and/or increase our operating costs and capital expenditures. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong production platform and we rely on internal production resources and third-party co-packers to fulfill our manufacturing needs. Certain of our manufacturing plants are operating at high rates of utilization, and we may need to expand our production facilities or increase our reliance on third parties to provide manufacturing and supply services, commonly referred to as “co-packing” agreements, for a number of our products. A failure by our co-packers to comply with food safety, environmental, or other laws and regulations may disrupt our supply of products. In addition, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increased distribution and warehousing costs due to capacity constraints resulting from our growth. If we need to enter into additional co-packing, warehousing or distribution agreements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to find acceptable third party providers or enter into agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to maintain sufficient internal capacity or establish satisfactory co-packing, warehousing and distribution arrangements could limit our ability to operate our business or implement our strategic growth plan, and could negatively affect our sales volumes and results of operations. In addition, we may need to expand our internal capacity, which would increase our operating costs and could require significant capital expenditures. If we cannot maintain sufficient production, warehousing and distribution capacity, either internally or through third party agreements, we may be unable to meet customer demand and/or our manufacturing, distribution and warehousing costs may increase, which could negatively affect our business. 25 Table of Contents An economic downturn could negatively affect our sales and results of operations. The branded food and beverage industry is sensitive to changes in international, national, and local economic conditions. The most recent economic downturn has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or private label products or forego certain purchases altogether. They may also reduce the number of organic and premium products that they purchase because organic and premium products generally have higher retail prices than their conventional counterparts. Lower consumer demand resulting from an economic downturn could decrease our sales volumes and negatively affect our results of operations. Disruption of our supply or distribution chains could adversely affect our business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, environmental incident, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing, and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. For example, the loss of any of Alpro’s distribution partners for local representation in Europe could negatively affect our business. In addition, all of our organic greens and produce products are processed in a single facility, and damage or disruption to this facility could impair our ability to process and sell those products. If we are unable or it is not financially feasible to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supply can cause significant price competition in our businesses. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Some of our products are highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as lettuce, must be sold more quickly, while other items can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of product depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the products in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of products. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial debt and financial obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business, and we may incur additional debt. As of January 31, 2014, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $1.28 billion under our $1.84 billion senior secured credit facilities, of which $985.0 million consists of term loan borrowings and $292.0 million consists of borrowings under the $850.0 million revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities. We also had additional borrowing capacity of approximately $553.1 million under our senior secured credit facilities, which amount will vary over time depending on our financial covenants and operating performance. 26 Table of Contents Our debt levels and the terms of our financing arrangements: • require us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our debt, which will reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes; • limit our future ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • subject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage for us and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or in funding our strategic growth plan; and • impose on us financial and operational restrictions. Our debt level and the terms of our financing arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we do not generate enough cash flow to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. There is no guarantee that we will be able to take any of these actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. Our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contains various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contains covenants that, among other things, restricts our ability to: • borrow money or guarantee debt; • create liens; • make specified types of investments and acquisitions; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • enter into new lines of business; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets or merge with other companies. These restrictions on the operation of our business could harm us by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition opportunities, and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under the credit agreement and to foreclose upon the collateral securing the debt. We may need additional financing in the future, and we may not be able to obtain that financing. From time to time, we may need additional financing to support our business and pursue our growth strategy, including strategic acquisitions. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. 27 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock, and, in the case of equity and equity-linked securities, our existing stockholders may experience dilution. Our results of operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. Our financial results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: • product quality issues or negative publicity about our products or ingredients; • investments that we make to acquire new brands and to launch products; • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • availability of raw materials and fluctuations in their prices; and • variations in general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Our international operations subject us to business risks that could cause our revenue and profitability to decline. Based upon current distribution, we estimate that our products are sold in over 50 countries worldwide. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for 16%, 16% and 18% of our total net sales in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Risks associated with our operations outside of the United States include: • legal and regulatory requirements in multiple jurisdictions that differ from those in the United States and change from time to time, such as tax, labor, and trade laws, as well as laws that affect our ability to manufacture, market, or sell our products; • foreign currency exposures; • political and economic instability, such as the recent debt crisis in Europe; • trade protection measures and price controls; and • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries. If one or more of these business risks occur, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Loss of our key management or other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could negatively impact our business. We depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced senior management team. We also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, or if we fail to attract talented new employees, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Labor issues could adversely affect our business. As of January 31, 2014, approximately 18% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council representation. Our collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire at 28 Table of Contents various times over the next five years. A strike, work slowdown, or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. We purchase a portion of our lettuce and other fresh produce from third-party growers who grow these products in the United States. The personnel engaged for harvesting operations by these third-party growers and by us, typically include significant numbers of immigrants who are authorized to work in the U.S. The availability and number of these workers may decrease if certain changes are enacted in U.S. immigration laws. A scarcity of available personnel to harvest agricultural products in the U.S. could increase our costs for those products or could lead to product shortages. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party confidentiality, nondisclosure, and assignment agreements, and by policing third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend, cause us to cease making, licensing, or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. A failure to renew or a termination of our licenses for the use of other parties’ intellectual property could result in the loss of significant sales. We have entered into license agreements to use certain trademarks, service marks, and trade names, such as LAND O LAKES, Almond Joy, Cold Stone Creamery, Cinnabon, Dunkin Donuts, Green Mountain Coffee, Hershey’s, and YORK, to brand and market some of our products. In addition, we have entered into a license agreement with DSM Nutritional Products, the owner of Martek Biosciences Corporation, to use products covered by a patent for supplementing certain of our premium dairy and soy products with DHA Omega-3. These agreements are scheduled to expire at various dates in the future, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew these licenses on acceptable terms upon expiration or at all or that we will be able to acquire new licenses to use other popular trademarks or proprietary products or processes. The termination or expiration of a license agreement would cause us to lose the sales and any associated profits generated pursuant to such license and in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and have a negative impact on our reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves or disclose the relevant litigation claims 29 Table of Contents or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Our business is subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which may increase our compliance costs or subject us to liabilities. Our business operations are subject to numerous requirements in the United States and the European Union relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and the National Organic Standards of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, as well as similar state and local statutes and regulations in the United States and in each of the countries in which we do business in Europe. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions and the discharge of wastewater and other pollutants, the use of refrigerants, the handling and disposal of hazardous materials, and the cleanup of contamination in the environment. We could incur significant costs, including fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of the failure to comply with, or liabilities under, environmental, health, and safety requirements. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances, or curtail operations. These costs could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Violations of laws or regulations related to the food industry, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations related to the food industry, could adversely affect our business. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling, and distribution of our products, as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. We are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the U.S. FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, as well as by similar authorities abroad within the regulatory framework of the European Union and its members. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration, and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In addition, the marketing and advertising of our products could make us the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, and we may be subject to initiatives that limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. We are also subject to federal laws and regulations relating to our organic products and production. For example, as required by the National Organic Program (“NOP”), we rely on third parties to certify certain of our products and production locations as organic. Because the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, which created the NOP, was so recently adopted, many regulations and informal positions taken by the NOP are subject to continued review and scrutiny. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase our compliance costs, increase other costs of doing business for us, our customers, or our suppliers, or restrict our actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In some cases, increased regulatory scrutiny could interrupt distribution of our products, as could be the case in the United States as the FDA enacts the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, or force changes in our production processes and our products. Further, if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increases in costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With approximately 3,900 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. These costs can vary substantially as a result of changes in health care laws and costs. These factors may put pressure on the cost of providing medical and 30 Table of Contents other employee health and welfare benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. If we do not succeed, our profitability could be negatively affected. We have only been a stand-alone public company since October 2012, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company prior to October 2012 and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. We derived the historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for periods prior to January 1, 2013 from Dean Foods’ consolidated financial statements. This information does not necessarily reflect the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company during the periods presented, or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily because of the following factors: • Prior to our initial public offering, we operated as a segment of Dean Foods, rather than as a stand-alone company. Dean Foods historically performed various corporate services for us, including executive management, supply chain, information technology, legal, finance and accounting, investor relations, human resources, risk management, tax, treasury, and other services. Our historical financial information reflects allocations of corporate expenses from Dean Foods for these and similar functions. These allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as a stand-alone public company. • We entered into agreements that formalized and, in certain cases, modified our ongoing commercial arrangements with certain current and former wholly-owned subsidiaries of Dean Foods. Under these agreements, the current and former Dean Foods subsidiaries agreed to continue to manufacture and/or sell and distribute our products on our behalf, supply us with certain raw materials and other inputs, and provide certain other services. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These agreements were negotiated among representatives of Dean Foods’ business platforms and, we believe, reflect substantially the terms that we would have been able to obtain from third parties, taking into account the nature of certain ongoing customer relationships. When these agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to negotiate renewals or new agreements with third parties on terms that are favorable to us. • Our pre-2013 historical financial information has not been adjusted and does not reflect changes that we have experienced as a result of becoming a stand-alone public company. These changes include (1) changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, tax structure, and business operations, (2) changes in our management, (3) potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, and (4) increased costs associated with corporate governance, investor and public relations, and public company reporting and compliance. Therefore, our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, and the occurrence of any of the risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, or any other event, could cause our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows to materially differ from our historical financial information. While we have been profitable as part of Dean Foods, we cannot assure you that our profits will continue at a similar level as a stand-alone public company. Our agreements with Dean Foods and the desire to preserve the tax-free status of our spin-off from Dean Foods limit our ability to take certain corporate actions following the Distribution, and we could owe significant tax indemnification payments to Dean Foods if the Distribution or other steps in the spin-off is taxable as a result of actions by us or acquisitions of our stock or assets. Our business strategy anticipates future acquisitions and development of new products. However, in order to preserve the tax-free status of our spin-off from Dean Foods, we are subject to certain restrictions on actions related to our common stock, including the issuance, sale, redemption or repurchase of our common stock. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we generally have agreed to indemnify Dean Foods and its affiliates against any and all taxes incurred by them relating to the spin-off failing to be tax-free to the extent such taxes are caused by our actions or acquisitions of our stock or assets by any person other than Dean Foods or its affiliates. If we were to become liable under such indemnity, it would result in a significant liability to us as such taxes would likely be substantial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 