Risk Factors” section, or any other event, could cause our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows to materially differ from our historical financial information. While we have been profitable as part of Dean Foods, we cannot assure you that our profits will continue at a similar level as a stand-alone public company. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not, quickly and cost effectively, establish our own financial, administrative, and other support functions, and we cannot assure you that the transitional services Dean Foods has agreed to provide us will be sufficient for our needs. Historically, we have relied on financial, administrative, and other resources of Dean Foods to operate our business. In conjunction with our separation from Dean Foods, we are in the process of creating our own financial, administrative, and other support systems and contracting with third parties to replace Dean Foods’ systems. We have entered into a transition services agreement with Dean Foods under which we are providing marketing, R&D, and other transitional services to Dean Foods, and Dean Foods is providing certain transitional services to us, including supply chain, information technology, legal, finance and accounting, human resources, risk management, tax, treasury, and other services. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Related Party Relationships with Dean Foods” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs. After our agreement with Dean Foods expires, we may not be able to obtain these services at as favorable prices or on as favorable terms. Any failure or significant downtime in our own financial, administrative, or other support systems or in Dean Foods’ financial, administrative, or other support systems during the transitional period could negatively impact our results of operations or prevent us from paying our suppliers and employees, executing business combinations and foreign currency transactions, or performing administrative or other services on a timely basis, which could negatively affect our results of operations. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications among our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. As a stand-alone public company, we no longer have access to the resources of Dean Foods, and we may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power. We have historically benefited from Dean Foods’ financial strength and numerous significant business relationships and have been able to take advantage of Dean Foods’ size and purchasing power in procuring goods, services, and technology. We have drawn on these resources in developing our own contacts and relationships. As a stand-alone public company, we are no longer able to rely on Dean Foods’ resources and contacts, and as a result we may be unable to obtain goods, services, and technology at prices and on terms as favorable as those that we obtained prior to our separation from Dean Foods, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Certain of our directors and our Chief Executive Officer are directors of Dean Foods, which may present certain conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest. In addition, some of our directors and officers own Dean Foods common stock and options or other instruments, the value of which is related to the value of Dean Foods common stock, which could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interests that result in our not acting on opportunities on which we would otherwise act. Certain of our directors and our Chief Executive Officer are directors of Dean Foods, and certain of our directors and officers own a substantial amount of Dean Foods common stock and options or other instruments, the value of which is related to the value of Dean Foods common stock. The direct and indirect interests of these directors and officers in Dean Foods and its common stock and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of 30 Table of Contents interest with respect to decisions involving both us and Dean Foods that could have different implications for Dean Foods and us. These decisions could, for example, relate to: • disagreement over corporate opportunities; • competition between us and Dean Foods; • management stock ownership; • employee retention or recruiting; • our dividend policy; and • the services and arrangements from which we benefit as a result of our relationship with Dean Foods. Conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any new, or amend existing, commercial arrangements with Dean Foods in the future, or if Dean Foods decides to compete with us in any of our product categories. Our directors and officers who have interests in both Dean Foods and us may also face conflicts in allocating their time between Dean Foods and us. As a result of any such conflicts of interest, we may be precluded from pursuing certain opportunities that we would otherwise pursue, including growth opportunities, which may negatively affect our business and results of operations. If Dean Foods engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to operate successfully and expand our business may be hampered. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Dean Foods will have no obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, or • doing business with any of our clients, customers, or vendors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our Company, on the one hand, and Dean Foods and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our Company and our subsidiaries, on the other hand. Specifically, if Dean Foods learns of a potential corporate opportunity suitable for both Dean Foods and us, we will have no interest in that opportunity. It also provides that if any of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of Dean Foods learns of a potential corporate opportunity suitable for both Dean Foods and us, we will have no interest in that opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer. This policy could result in Dean Foods having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and Dean Foods have an interest. By becoming a stockholder in our Company, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Our agreements with Dean Foods and the desire to preserve the tax-free status of the contribution and any Distribution or other Tax-Free Disposition by Dean Foods limit our ability to take certain corporate actions prior to and after a Distribution, and we could owe significant tax indemnification payments to Dean Foods if any Distribution or other Tax-Free Disposition is taxable as a result of actions by us or acquisitions of our stock or assets. Our business strategy anticipates future acquisitions and development of new products. However, the agreements we have entered into with Dean Foods limit our ability to do so prior to any Distribution by Dean Foods. For example, under the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions, we are 31 Table of Contents prohibited, without Dean Foods’ prior consent, through the earlier of the date on which a Distribution occurs or the termination of the separation and distribution agreement, from acquiring any other businesses or assets, disposing of any of our own assets (other than in the ordinary course of business), or acquiring any equity interests in, or loaning any funds to, third parties. In addition, in order to preserve the tax-free status of the contribution, the Distribution, and any other Tax-Free Disposition, we are subject to certain restrictions on actions related to our common stock. For example, for any future Distribution to be tax-free to Dean Foods and its stockholders, Dean Foods, among other things, must own shares representing at least 80% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock (and at least 80% of the outstanding shares of any class of non-voting stock) at the time of such Distribution. Therefore, prior to any Distribution, we are limited in our ability to issue any stock or any instrument that is convertible, exercisable, or exchangeable into such stock (including convertible debt) without Dean Foods’ prior consent, and Dean Foods may be unwilling to give that consent if it intends to preserve the option to effect a future separation transaction on a tax-free basis. U.S. federal tax law and the tax matters agreement that we have entered into with Dean Foods impose certain restrictions with which we will need to comply following any Distribution in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the Distribution, such as limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility. In addition, we generally have agreed to indemnify Dean Foods and its affiliates against any and all taxes incurred by them relating to the contribution, the Distribution and any debt-for-equity exchange failing to be tax free to the extent such taxes are caused by our actions or acquisitions of our stock or assets by any person other than Dean Foods or its affiliates. If we were to become liable under such indemnity, it would result in a significant liability to us as such taxes would likely be substantial. We are a “controlled company” under the NYSE rules, and, as a result, will rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Dean Foods owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock, and therefore we are a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, such as the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, each of which is composed entirely of independent directors, has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, and is subject to an annual performance evaluation. A majority of the directors on our board of directors qualify as independent directors, but we have utilized and are currently utilizing the exemptions regarding having a nominating and corporate governance committee and a compensation committee. As a result, our independent directors will be responsible for our nominating and corporate governance and compensation functions. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Dean Foods that we have not assumed in our agreements with Dean Foods. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Dean Foods’ retained liabilities. Pursuant to our agreements with Dean Foods, Dean Foods has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to certain of these retained liabilities. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses. For example, certain of Dean Foods’ defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multiemployer plans in which Dean Foods participates, are less than fully funded. While Dean Foods is retaining responsibility for such plans and indemnifying us for any liabilities under such plans, there can be no assurance that we will not be ultimately responsible for any liabilities under such plans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 Table of Contents 