Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones Residential or we face. We consider the risks faced by Residential to be our risks because we rely on the performance of Residential to determine our incentive management fee payments and result of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.5(table of contents)Risks related to our business in generalWe are a development stage company. If we are unable to implement our business strategy or operate our business as we currently expect to do, our operating results may be adversely affected.We are a development stage company and our business model is untested. Businesses like ours which are starting up or in their initial stages of development, present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. We have not completed a full year operations and as a result we cannot predict our results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. We have generated no revenue to date and may not have sufficient capital to implement our business model. In addition, we will have increased costs as a result of being a stand-alone public company, including with respect to maintaining a separate Board of Directors and obtaining a separate audit, in addition to accounting, tax, legal, insurance and compliance costs and other professional fees. Currently, we are unable to estimate the amount of such expenses. There can be no assurance that the business will become profitable or if we become profitable that it will be sustainable. The income potential of our proposed business is unproven, and the absence of an operating history for Residential and us makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We may not be able to execute our business strategy as planned which may adversely impact our financial performance.The success of our business is dependent on Residential and its ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of capital.Residential is a development stage company and may not have sufficient working capital to implement its investment strategies. Residential may need to utilize a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient capital to effectively carry out its business plan over the long-term. We will have significant responsibilities in advising Residential on its capital raising activities. Our success is dependent on Residential's ability to obtain such capital. Currently, the primary source of Residential's liquidity is the capital contribution from Altisource. In the future, Residential may need to utilize various secondary sources of liquidity including without limitation accessing the capital markets to issue debt or equity securities or engaging in collateralized or other borrowings from third party banks, all or any of which may not be available or have terms that are not cost-effective, therefore having an adverse impact on Residential's financial performance. Residential currently is our only customer. The loss of this key customer or its failure to pay us would adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Residential is also a development stage company and has not generated any revenue to date. We may not be able to obtain additional clients on acceptable terms or at all. Therefore, we may be unable to reduce our reliance on Residential for incentive management fees.The asset management business is intensely competitive. The asset management business is intensely competitive, driven by a variety of factors including asset performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our asset management business competes with a number of other asset managers. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: •a number of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do;•our client may not perform as well as the clients of our competitors;•several of our competitors and their clients have significant amounts of capital and many of them have similar management objectives to ours which may create additional competition for management opportunities;•some of these competitors' clients may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to our clients which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to funding opportunities;•some of our competitors' clients may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds which could allow them to facilitate the acquisition and management by their clients of a wider variety of assets and allow them to advise their clients to bid more aggressively than our clients for assets on which we would advise our clients to bid;•there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms and the successful efforts of new entrants into the asset management business is expected to continue to result in increased competition;•some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by potential clients as having better expertise with regard to specific assets and•other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit members of our management team and other employees away from us. 6(table of contents)Our inability to effectively compete on these and other areas may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The risks associated with Residential's business that could adversely affect its ability to generate revenue and pay distributions to its shareholders are risks to our business.Initially, Residential is our primary source of revenue and will drive our potential future growth. Any risk associated with Residential's business that would adversely affect its ability to generate revenue and pay distributions to its shareholders is a risk to our business, as our revenues, results of operations and financial condition significantly depend upon the incentive management fees paid to us as a percentage of Residential's cash available for distribution to its shareholders.The risks associated with NewSource's business that could adversely affect its ability to generate revenue and pay our asset management fee are risks to our business and the value of our investment in NewSource.On December 21, 2012, we entered into a subscription agreement to invest $2.0 million to acquire 100% of the common stock and voting rights of NewSource. In addition, Residential entered into a subscription agreement to invest $18.0 million in the non-voting preferred stock of NewSource. We intend to enter into a management agreement with NewSource to provide asset management and corporate governance services. NewSource will pay us an annual asset management fee. Any risk associated with NewSource's business that would adversely affect its ability to generate revenue and pay our asset management fee is a risk to our business.Failure of Residential to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us. Residential intends to elect and qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning the year ended December 31, 2013. Residential's qualification as a REIT will depend upon its ability to meet, on an ongoing basis, requirements regarding its organization and ownership, distributions of its income, the nature and diversification of its income and assets and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code which we refer to as the “Code.” Residential may fail to satisfy the REIT requirements in the future. If the IRS determines that Residential does not qualify as a REIT or if it qualifies as a REIT and subsequently loses its REIT status, Residential will be subject to serious tax consequences that would cause a significant reduction in its cash available for distribution for each of the years involved and thereby reduce or nullify any incentive management fees payable to us.If Residential is deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it would have significant adverse consequences to us.Residential does not intend or expect to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the “Investment Company Act,” since it will not engage primarily or hold itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, Residential will be primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring real estate and mortgages on real estate, specifically single family rental assets and sub-performing and non-performing loans. To the extent that the SEC determines that Residential is in fact an investment company, Residential intends to rely on the exception from the Investment Company Act set forth in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which excludes from the definition of investment company ''[a]ny person who is not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in one or more of the following businesses: . . .(C) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.'' The SEC has historically taken the position that an issuer may rely on the exception provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) as long as at least 55% of its assets consist of ''qualifying interests,'' such as mortgage loans which are secured by real estate and other liens on and interests in real estate, and an additional 25% consists of real estate-type interests. The SEC has also historically indicated that up to 20% of an issuer's total assets may be invested in miscellaneous investments. Other than Residential's investment in NewSource, Residential believes that all of its assets will fall within the definition of ''qualifying assets.'' Additionally, Residential does not currently expect to issue redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, as those terms are defined by the Investment Company Act. Consequently, Residential believes that it will not be required to register under the Investment Company Act.If Residential is deemed to be an investment company and its investment in NewSource accounts for more than 20% of its assets, it could be required to dispose of its NewSource investment (or a portion thereof) in order to qualify for the 3(c)(5)(C) exception. We expect that Residential's investment in NewSource will constitute less than 20% of its assets shortly after the separation date. Consequently, we do not believe that Residential's investment in NewSource will impact its ability to continue 7(table of contents)to rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption. In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release which indicated that the SEC is reviewing whether certain mortgage related pools which rely (like Residential) on the exception from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C), should continue to be allowed to rely on such exception from registration. Since Residential's primary investment strategy is to directly invest in REO Properties and mortgages secured by real estate, Residential does not believe that the SEC's review will have a material impact on its status as a non-investment company business or its ability to continue to rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exception; however, Residential cannot provide any assurance that the outcome of the SEC's review will not require Residential to register under the Investment Company Act. If Residential is determined to be an investment company or it fails to qualify for this exception from registration as an investment company, or the SEC determines that companies that engage in businesses similar to Residential's are no longer able to rely on this exception, Residential may be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.Registration under the Investment Company Act would require Residential to comply with a variety of substantive requirements that impose, among other things:•limitations on capital structure;•restrictions on specified investments;•restrictions on retaining earnings;•restrictions on leverage or senior securities;•restrictions on unsecured borrowings;•requirements that Residential's income be derived from certain types of assets;•prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and•compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase Residential's operating expenses.If Residential were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, it would be prohibited from engaging in its business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against it.Registration with the SEC as an investment company would be costly, would subject Residential to a host of complex regulations and would divert attention from the conduct of Residential's business. In addition, if Residential purchases or sells any real estate assets to avoid becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it could materially adversely affect its net asset value, the amount of funds available for investment and its ability to pay distributions to its shareholders. Any such occurrences would adversely impact our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we will be subject following the separation date.As a result of the separation, we are directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. To comply with these requirements, we may need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting and finance staff. We have and expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and these expenses may be significant. If we are unable to implement additional controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the Exchange Act could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In the future, we may also be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources.The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as an “emerging growth company” or a “smaller reporting company” may make our common stock less attractive to investors.We are an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act of 2012, and we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not "emerging growth companies" including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Additionally, we are a “smaller reporting company” as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. As a smaller 8(table of contents)reporting company we prepare and file SEC forms similar to other SEC reporting companies; however, the information disclosed may differ and be less comprehensive. Smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may remain an "emerging growth company" for up to five full fiscal years following our separation. We would cease to be an emerging growth company and, therefore, become ineligible to rely on the above exemptions, if we have more than $1 billion in annual revenue in a fiscal year, if we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period or on the date we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company or smaller reporting company, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile than that of an otherwise comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or similar exemptions. Our success depends on our senior management team, and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team. We depend on the services of members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our growth strategies and maintain and develop our client relationships. In the event that, for any reason, we are unable to retain our key personnel, it may be difficult for us to secure suitable replacements on acceptable terms. This would adversely impact the development and implementation of our growth strategies.The continuing unpredictability of the credit markets may restrict our access to capital and may make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain any required additional financing. The domestic and international credit markets continue to be unpredictable. In the event that we need additional capital for our business or for the business of Residential, we may have a difficult time obtaining it and/or the terms upon which we can obtain it would have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure financings in the future for Residential or us, Residential or we could be forced to sell assets in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices which could adversely affect Residential's or our performance.Our business could be significantly impacted if we suffer failure or disruptions of our information systems. We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day activities, most services of which are provided through Altisource. Thus, our business requires the continued operation of Altisource's sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, loss, system malfunction and other events which are beyond our control. Systems interruptions could reduce our ability to provide our services and could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.Failure of Altisource to effectively perform its obligations under various agreements with Residential and us including the Altisource master services agreement, could have an adverse effect on Residential's and our business and performance.Both we and Residential have engaged Altisource to provide services. If for any reason Altisource is unable to perform the services at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, alternate service providers may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all which could adversely affect our performance under the Residential asset management agreement. Such a failure could also lead to a decline or other adverse effects to our operating results and could harm our ability to execute our business plan.In addition, Residential is required to pay Altisource for the services it provides under the Altisource master services agreement and support services agreement and trademark license agreement. If Residential fails to pay Altisource or otherwise defaults under these agreements, Altisource may cease to act under the Altisource master services agreement and other agreements which would adversely affect our operating results and our ability to execute our business plan.Failure of Ocwen to effectively perform its servicing obligations under the Ocwen servicing agreement could have an adverse effect on Residential's and our business and performance.9(table of contents)Residential is contractually obligated to service the residential mortgage loans that it acquires. Residential does not have any employees, servicing platform, licenses or technical resources necessary to service its acquired loans. Consequently, Residential has engaged Ocwen to service the sub-performing and non-performing loans it acquires. If for any reason Ocwen is unable to service the acquired loans at the level and/or the cost that Residential anticipates, an alternate servicer may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all which could have an adverse effect on Residential's ability to execute its business plan and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.In addition, under the Ocwen servicing agreement, Residential is required to pay Ocwen fees for servicing Residential's acquired mortgage loans. If Residential fails to pay Ocwen or otherwise defaults under the Ocwen servicing agreement, Ocwen may cease to act as the servicer under the Ocwen servicing agreement which would adversely affect Residential's operating results and thereby decreasing our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Failure to obtain or retain the tax benefits provided by the United States Virgin Islands would adversely affect our financial performance. We are headquartered in Frederiksted, St. Croix, in the United States Virgin Islands. The United States Virgin Islands has an Economic Development Commission, which we refer to as the “EDC,” that provides benefits, which we refer to as “EDC Benefits,” to certain qualified businesses in Frederiksted that enable us to avail ourselves of significant tax benefits. We applied for the EDC Benefits from the EDC and received approval of our application by the Governor of the United States Virgin Islands on August 10, 2012. We shortly expect to receive our certificate to operate as an EDC as of February 1, 2013. It is possible that we may not be able to retain our qualifications for the EDC Benefits or that changes in U.S. federal, state, local, territorial or United States Virgin Islands taxation statutes or applicable regulations may cause a reduction in or an elimination of the EDC Benefits, all of which could result in a significant increase to our tax expense, and, therefore, adversely affect our financial performance.We may be subject to United States federal income taxation.We are incorporated under the laws of the United States Virgin Islands and intend to operate in a manner that will cause us to be treated as not engaging in a trade or business within the United States which will cause us to be exempt from current United States federal income taxation on our net income. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that we are engaged in a trade or business within the United States. If the IRS were to successfully assert that we have been engaged in a trade or business within the United States in any taxable year, various adverse tax consequences could result including the following: •we may become subject to current United States federal income taxation on our net income from sources within the United States;•we may be subject to United States federal income tax on a portion of our net investment income, regardless of its source;•we may not be entitled to deduct certain expenses that would otherwise be deductible from the income subject to United States taxation and•we may be subject to United States branch profits tax on profits deemed to have been distributed out of the United States.United States persons who own shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.Significant potential adverse United States federal income tax consequences generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a passive foreign investment company which we refer to as a “PFIC.” We cannot provide assurance that we will not be a PFIC in any future taxable year.In general, we would be a PFIC for a taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of its income constitutes “passive income” or (ii) 50% or more of our assets produce “passive income.” Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. We believe that we are currently operating and intend to continue operating our business in a way that should not cause us to be a deemed PFIC, although we cannot assure you the IRS will not successfully challenge this conclusion. 10(table of contents)United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of our shares which we refer to as United States 10% shareholders, may be subject to the controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as “CFC,” rules, Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% shareholder must annually include his pro rata share of the CFC's “subpart F income,” even if no distributions are made. In general, with respect to insurance revenues related to NewSource, we will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of our shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. With respect to all other revenues, we will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 50% of the total combined voting power or total value of our shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that the dispersion of our ordinary shares among holders will generally prevent shareholders who acquire shares from being United States 10% shareholders. We cannot assure you, however, that these rules will not apply to you. If you are a United States person, we strongly urge you to consult your own tax adviser concerning the CFC rules.United States tax-exempt organizations who own shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.If you are a United States tax-exempt organization you may recognize unrelated business taxable income with respect to our insurance-related income if a portion of our subpart F income is allocated to you. In general, subpart F income will be allocated to you if we are a CFC and you are a United States 10% shareholder and certain exceptions do not apply. In general, with respect to insurance revenues related to NewSource, we will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of our shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. Although we do not believe that any United States persons will be allocated subpart F income, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization, we advise you to consult your own tax adviser regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income.Change in United States tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us, and/or United States persons who own shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings.The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether we are engaged in a United States trade or business, are a CFC or a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.The impact of the initiative of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in the United States Virgin Islands.The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. While the United States Virgin Islands is currently a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented internationally agreed tax standards, we are not able to predict if additional requirements will be imposed and if so whether changes arising from such additional requirements will subject us to additional taxes.Risks related to the acquisition and ownership of real estate and real estate related assets by our clientResidential's supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans and REO properties may be reduced by uncertainty in the lending industry and governmental sector.Residential's business model is dependent on the acquisition of a steady supply of non-performing loans and REO properties. The number of non-performing loans and REO properties may be reduced by uncertainty in the lending industry and the governmental sector. Lenders may choose to delay foreclosure proceedings, renegotiate interest rates or refinance mortgages for holders who face foreclosure. In recent years, the federal government has instituted a number of programs aimed at assisting at-risk mortgage holders and reducing the number of properties going into foreclosure or going into non-performing status. For example, The U.S. Government, through the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Administration, which we refer to as the “FHA,” and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has implemented a number of federal programs designed to assist homeowners, including the Home Affordable Modification Program, which we refer to as the “HAMP,” which provides homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, the Hope for Homeowners Program, which we refer to as the “H4H Program,” which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA-insured loans 11(table of contents)in order to avoid defaulting or residential mortgage loan foreclosures; and the Home Affordable Refinance Program which allows borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments to refinance and reduce their monthly mortgage payments without new mortgage insurance, up to an unlimited loan-to-value ratio for fixed-rate mortgages. HAMP, the H4H Program and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans (through forbearance and/or forgiveness) and/or the rate of interest payable on the loans or to extend the payment terms of the loans. These loan modification programs, future legislative or regulatory actions, including possible amendments to the bankruptcy laws which result in the modification of outstanding residential mortgage loans as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans, may materially adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, Residential's portfolio of sub-performing and non-performing loans.In the future, the federal government could institute additional programs to provide financial relief and assistance to mortgage holders at risk of foreclosure. General economic improvement and/or decisions by lenders and government programs that reduce the number of REO properties could adversely affect Residential's business opportunities and impact its overall financial performance and thereby impacting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Residential's supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans may decline over time as a result of higher credit standards for new loans, increased prices for sub-performing or non-performing loans and/or general economic improvement.Residential's business model is dependent on the acquisition of a steady supply of sub-performing and non-performing mortgage loans. As a result of the economic crisis in 2008, there is currently a large supply of sub-performing and non-performing loans available for Residential to acquire. However, in response to the economic crisis, the origination of jumbo, subprime, Alt-A and second lien mortgage loans has dramatically declined as lenders have increased their standards of credit-worthiness in originating new loans and fewer families may go into non-performing status on their mortgages. In addition, the prices at which sub-performing and non-performing loans can be acquired may increase due to the influx of new participants into the non-performing loan marketplace or a lower supply non-performing loans in the marketplace. For these reasons, along with the general improvement in the economy, the supply of sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans that Residential may acquire may decline over time and could adversely affect its business opportunities and result in a reduction of Residential's operating income and thereby decrease our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Competition in identifying and acquiring sub-performing and non-performing loans and REO properties in a timely manner may adversely affect Residential's financial results. Residential faces competition from various sources for investment opportunities in sub-performing and non-performing loans and REO properties, including REITs, pension funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, other investment funds and companies, partnerships and developers. Some third party competitors have substantially greater financial resources than Residential and may be able to accept more risk than Residential. Competition from these companies may reduce the number of suitable sub-performing and non-performing loan and REO properties investment opportunities offered to Residential, increase to the prices at which non-performing loans can be acquired or may increase the bargaining power of asset owners seeking to sell. If such events occur, Residential's financial performance may be adversely impacted and, therefore, have adverse consequences to us.Residential's operating results depends on the availability of, and our ability to quickly identify, assist in acquiring and managing, appropriate sub-performing and non-performing loan and REO property investment opportunities. It may take considerable time for us to acquire appropriate sub-performing and non-performing loan and REO property investments, or we may have to pay more for non-performing loans than expected. Given the existing competition, complexity of the market and requisite time needed to make such investments, no assurance can be given that Residential will be successful in acquiring investments which satisfy our return objectives. Furthermore, there is no assurance that such investments, once acquired, will perform as intended.Competition could limit Residential's ability to lease single-family rental assets or increase or maintain rents.Residential's single-family rental assets will compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents including rental apartments, condominiums and other single-family homes available for rent as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely affect Residential's ability to lease its single-family rental assets and to increase or maintain rental rates. This may adversely affect Residential's financial 12(table of contents)condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Changes in global economic and capital markets conditions including periods of generally deteriorating real estate industry fundamentals, may significantly impact Residential's financial performance and, therefore, have adverse consequences to us. Residential is subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate and real estate related assets including decreases in residential property values, changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic and real estate market conditions as well as other factors particular to the locations of its investments. A prolonged recession, such as the one experienced over the past few years, and a prolonged recovery period could adversely impact Residential's business as a result of, among other items, increased customer defaults under Residential's leases, lower demand for residential rentals as well as a potential oversupply of residential rental units, each of which could lead to increased concessions or reduced rental rates to maintain occupancies. These conditions could also adversely impact the financial condition of the renters that occupy Residential's single-family rental assets and, as a result, their ability to pay rent to Residential and thereby decreasing our revenue from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.On December 21, 2012, we entered into a subscription agreement to invest $2.0 million to acquire 100% of the common stock and voting rights of NewSource. In addition, Residential entered into a subscription agreement to invest $18.0 million in the non-voting preferred stock of NewSource. We will receive a management fee for providing asset management and certain corporate governance to NewSource. The demand for title insurance-related services depends in large part on the volume of real estate transactions. The volume of these transactions historically has been influenced by such factors as mortgage interest rates, availability of financing and the overall state of the economy. When market conditions cause real estate activity to decline, the title insurance industry tends to experience decreased revenues and earnings. In addition, adverse change in the marketplace could lead to an increase in title claims that NewSource may be required to defend and/or pay. Thus, a decline of activity in the real estate market or an increase in title claims could adversely impact NewSource's ability to generate profits and pay our management fee and the value of our investment in NewSource.Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses and the overall market value of Residential's assets.Local conditions will significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating performance of Residential's single-family rental assets. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include, amongst others, the following:•joblessness or unemployment rates that adversely affect the local economy;•an oversupply of or a reduced demand for single-family homes for rent;•a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases or fulfill their lease obligations;•a decline in rental rate which may be accentuated since Residential expects to have rent terms of two years or less;•rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing that could prevent Residential from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs and•economic conditions that could cause an increase in Residential's operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes, utilities and routine maintenance.In the event any of these market conditions evolve, Residential's ability to generate revenues and its operating expenses could be materially adversely affected and its results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Changes in applicable laws or noncompliance with applicable laws could adversely affect Residential's operations or expose Residential to liability.As an owner of real estate, Residential will be required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord-tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws or regulations could expose Residential to liability.Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from Residential's need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential 13(table of contents)landlord-tenant laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the rehabilitation, use and operation of Residential's single-family rental assets including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes. The occurrence of either of both of such events may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.In addition, we expect NewSource to register as a Class 3A Bermuda insurance company and be subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Changes in Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and policies could result in restrictions on NewSource's ability to pursue its business plans, issue reinsurance policies, distribute funds and execute its investment strategy. In addition, NewSource may become subject to regulation and supervision by insurance authorities in any other jurisdictions in which it operates. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on NewSource's ability to do business or certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could subject NewSource to fines and other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on NewSource's business and adversely impact NewSource's ability to pay the preferred dividend on Residential's preferred stock and the value of our investment in NewSource.Short-term leases will expose Residential to the effects of declining market rents.Substantially all of Residential's leases entered with renters on its single-family rental properties will be for a term of two years or less. Because these leases will generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, Residential's rental revenues will be impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if its leases were for longer terms. The effects of declining market rents may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Difficulties in selling single-family rental assets could limit Residential's flexibility.Federal REIT tax laws may limit Residential's ability to earn a gain on the sale of a single-family rental asset or group of rental assets if Residential is found to have held or acquired the single-family rental asset or group of assets with the intent to resell, and this limitation may affect Residential's ability to sell single-family rental assets without adversely affecting returns to its shareholders. This will particularly adversely affect Residential with properties that do not meet its rental property standards. In addition, real estate may at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices Residential finds acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in Residential's markets may limit its ability to change or reduce the single-family rental assets in its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on Residential's financial condition and results of operations.If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, Residential would incur the cost of defense and settlement with or court ordered damages to that third party. Residential carries commercial general liability insurance and will carry property insurance with respect to its single-family rental assets on terms it considers commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, Residential could lose its capital invested in a single-family rental asset or group of assets as well as the anticipated future revenues from such asset or group of assets. Residential would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the asset or group of assets, if any. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect Residential's business and its financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential. 14(table of contents)A significant number of Residential's single-family rental assets will be part of home owners' associations which we refer to as “HOAs.” Residential and its renters will be subject to the rules and regulations of such HOAs which may be arbitrary or restrictive and violations of such rules may subject Residential to additional fees and penalties and litigation with such HOAs which may be costly.A significant number of Residential's single-family rental assets will be subject to HOAs which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. Some of the HOAs that will govern Residential's single-family assets may enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict Residential's ability to renovate, market or lease its single-family rental assets or require Residential to renovate or maintain such assets at standards or costs that are in excess of Residential's planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale or the use of specific construction materials to be used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes, which if met or exceeded, may cause Residential to incur additional costs to sell the affected single family rental asset and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Furthermore, many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and Residential may have renters who violate these HOA rules for which Residential may be liable as the property owner. Additionally, the boards of Directors of the HOAs that will govern Residential's single-family rental assets may not make important disclosures or may block Residential's access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict Residential's ability to sell, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. Residential may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with certain HOA rules before acquiring a single-family rental asset, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause Residential to sell such asset, prevent Residential from renting such asset or otherwise reduce Residential's cash flow from such asset. Any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Residential likely will incur costs due to class actions and/or tenant rights and consumer demands or litigation.There are numerous tenants' rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country. As Residential grows in scale, it may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues and the increased market for single-family rentals arising from displaced home ownership. Some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues. Additional actions may include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of a single-family rental asset. While Residential intends to conduct its business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against Residential on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. Residential cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take or what remedies they may seek. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against Residential or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain Residential's business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain Residential's business operations and impose on Residential significant litigation expenses including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential. Residential may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, Residential may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at its single-family rental assets (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage Residential has for such events. The presence of such substances or the failure to properly remediate the contamination may adversely affect Residential's ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected single-family rental asset. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination. Any of the above-described occurrences may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.15(table of contents)Residential's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation or deflation. Increased inflation could have an adverse impact on interest rates, property management expenses and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than Residential's rental and other revenue. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. Accordingly, a change in inflation or deflation could adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential. Residential's real properties will be subject to property and other taxes that may increase over time.Residential will be responsible for the property taxes for its single-family rental assets which may increase as tax rates change and as properties are reassessed by taxing authorities. If Residential fails to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authorities may place a lien on the property, and the property may be subject to a tax sale. Any such occurrence may adversely affect Residential's financial condition and results of operations and thereby adversely affecting our income from the incentive management fees paid by Residential.Risks related to conflict of interests We could have conflicts with Altisource, Ocwen, Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd. , which we refer to as “HLSS,” and Residential, and the Chairman of our Board of Directors could have conflicts of interest due to his relationship with Altisource, Ocwen, HLSS and Residential which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Conflicts may arise between Altisource and us as a result of our ongoing agreements, the agreements we have negotiated on behalf of Residential with Altisource and the nature of each of our respective businesses. Altisource provides Residential with residential property management, leasing and construction management services for single-family rental assets acquired by Residential. In addition, we have become a party to a variety of agreements with Altisource, and we may enter into further agreements with Altisource involving purchase of assets, joint venture relationships, financing arrangements and other business transactions. Because both Residential and Altisource's businesses involve construction, leasing and property management services, Altisource's interests may conflict with Residential's particularly if Altisource deploys its resources in favor of its other clients. Conflicts may arise between Ocwen and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. Ocwen will perform substantially all mortgage loan servicing functions relating to Residential's acquisition and ownership of mortgage loans. In addition, we may enter into further agreements with Ocwen involving purchase of assets, joint venture relationships, financing arrangements and other business transactions. Because Residential outsources its servicing function to Ocwen and Ocwen services mortgages for its own clients, Ocwen's interests may conflict with Residential's particularly if is resources are deployed in favor of its other clients. Altisource, Ocwen, and HLSS are not limited in their ability to compete with us. We will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with them and through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Altisource, Ocwen, and HLSS or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with third parties.The Chairman of our Board of Directors is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Altisource, Ocwen, HLSS, and Residential. As a result, he will have obligations to us as well as to Altisource, Ocwen, HLSS and Residential and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Altisource, Ocwen, HLSS or Residential, as the case may be. Our Chairman currently owns a substantial amount of Altisource, Ocwen and HLSS common stock and Altisource and Ocwen stock options, and owns a substantial amount of our and Residential's common stock. In addition, certain of our Directors in the future also may own Altisource and/or Ocwen common stock and stock options due to similar relationships with Altisource and Ocwen. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Directors are faced with decisions that involve us, Altisource, Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or any of their respective subsidiaries.Our Directors have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours.16(table of contents)Our Directors may have other investments and business activities in addition to their interest in us. Under the provisions of our Charter and Bylaws, our Directors have no duty to abstain from exercising the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours or employ or otherwise engage any of our Directors. If any of our Directors who are also Directors, officers or employees of Altisource, Ocwen, Residential, HLSS or any other company acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity outside of his capacity as one of our Directors, then our Bylaws provide that such a director will be permitted to pursue that corporate opportunity independently of us, so long as the director has acted in good faith. Our Bylaws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, such a director will be deemed to have satisfied his fiduciary duties to us and will not be liable to us for pursuing such a corporate opportunity independently of us. This may create actual or potential conflicts of interest between us and certain of our Directors and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our shareholders. As of this date, none of our Directors is directly involved as a director, officer or employee of a business that competes with us, but there can be no assurance that will remain unchanged in the future.Risks related to our common stockThe market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.As a development stage company, the prices at which our common stock trades have and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many things, including but not limited to: •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations;•changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;•actions or announcements by our competitors;•regulatory actions;•lack of liquidity;•changes in the financial condition or stock price of Residential;•changes in the market outlook for the real estate and lending industries;•technology changes in our business and•departure of our key personnel.The market prices of securities of asset management service providers have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our shares of common stock.Furthermore, our small size and different investment characteristics, including our headquarters based in the United States Virgin Islands, may not appeal to our current investor base that may seek to dispose of large amounts of our common stock following the separation date. There is no assurance that there will be sufficient buying interest to offset those sales and, accordingly, the price of our common stock could be depressed and/or experience periods of high volatility.An active trading market for our common stock may never develop.Our shares of common stock began trading “regular way” on the OTCQX under the symbol “AAMC” on December 24, 2012. However, an active trading market for our common stock may not develop, and if an active trading market does develop, it may not be sustained. Accordingly, the ability to sell our common stock, or the prices that may be obtained for such common stock, will depend on the existence and liquidity of an active trading market of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.