Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following material risk factors and other information in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth could be seriously impacted. As a result, the trading price, if any, of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Lending and Guarantee Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Wujiang Luxiang commenced operations in October 2008 and has a limited operating history. As of December 31, 2013, we have built a $90.2 million portfolio of direct loans to 217 borrowers and a total of $59.7 million in loan guarantees for 77 borrowers. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 we generated $12,541,075 and $12,586,724 of net revenue with $7,704,970 and $8,312,469 of net income, respectively. however our growth rate since 2008 may not be indicative of our future performance. We may not be able to achieve similar results or grow at the same rate as we did in the past. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospects, as we may not have sufficient experience in addressing the risks to which companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets such as the microcredit industry, may be exposed. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties that companies at a similar stage of development frequently experience, including the potential failure to: ● obtain sufficient working capital and increase our registered capital to support expansion of our loan and guarantee portfolios; ● comply with any changes in the laws and regulations of the PRC or local province that may affect our lending operations; ● expand our borrowers base; ● maintain adequate control of default risks and expenses allowing us to realize anticipated revenue growth; ● implement our customer development, risk management and acquisition strategies and adapt and modify them as needed; ● integrate any future acquisitions; and ● anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the Chinese lending industry resulting from changes in government regulations, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are unable to address any or all of the foregoing risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investments in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies have delayed us from using the entire proceeds from our initial public offering to increase the registered capital of Wujiang Luxiang. As an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries or finance our operating entity by means of loans or capital contributions. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the difference between the amount of our investments and registered capital in such subsidiaries, and shall be registered with SAFE, or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital increase contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, shall be approved by MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. The majority of the net proceeds from our initial public offering completed in August 2013, approximately $7 million, is intended to increase the registered capital of Wujiang Luxiang and therefore its corresponding lending and guarantee capacity. Approximately $5.6 million of the net proceeds have already been contributed to Wujiang Luxiang and approved as an increase of the registered capital of Wujiang Luxiang. An additional $1.4 million will be transferred from WFOE to Wujiang Luxiang in the next few weeks to further increase its registered capital. $1.5 million of the proceeds was initially transferred to WFOE to be used for the registered capital requirements of WFOE. Due to the subsequent reduction of WFOE's registered capital requirement from $10 million to $100,000, $100,000 will remain at WFOE to satisfy its new registered capital requirement and the remaining $1.4 million will be used to further increase the registered capital of Wujiang Luxiang. The delay in receiving the approval to use the $1.4 million from our initial pubic offering to increase Wujiang Luxiang’s registered capital, currently prevents us from further expanding Wujiang Luxiang’s business. 26 Our current operations in China are geographically limited to the city of Wujiang. In accordance with the PRC state and provincial laws and regulations with regard to microcredit companies, we are not allowed to make loans and provide guarantees to businesses and individuals located outside of the city of Wujiang. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of the economy in the city of Wujiang. A downturn in the local economy or the implementation of local policies unfavorable to SMEs may cause a decrease in the demand for our loan or guarantee services and may negatively affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have a negative impact on our profitability and business. If the Jiangsu government subsidy we currently receive from the Jiangsu government for loans to farmers is not renewed, we would suffer a loss of revenues. Pursuant to certain Jiangsu government policies on promotion of rural economic reform, the interest on loans to farmers is subsidized by the government. Therefore, we charge the farmers at an interest rate lower than that of loans to SME’s. A portion of the difference between the lower rate charged to farmers and the rate charged to SME’s is remitted to us annually by the Jiangsu government as a government subsidy. We also received other types of government subsidies from Jiangsu government which are, among other things, intended to incentivize microcredit companies to establish and maintain strict financial operation systems. Applicants for these subsidies are required to apply for such subsidies annually. The standards for granting this subsidy is presently flexible and the number of applicants applying for such subsidies varies from year to year. In addition, the amount of funds which will be available for the Jiangsu government to use for these government subsidies each year is uncertain and depend on the needs of microeconomic development of Jiangsu province, the government’s budget and other factors. In the event our application for such subsidy in the future is not granted or the funds we receive are reduced, we would suffer loss of revenues. Changes in the interest rates and spread could have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues and financial condition are primarily dependent on interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans we provide and interest paid to the lines of credit we obtain from other financial institutions. A narrowing interest rate spread could adversely affect our earnings and financial conditions. If we are not able to control our funding costs or adjust our lending interest rate in a timely manner, our interest margin will decline. In addition, the interest rates we charge to the borrowers in our direct loan business are linked to the PBOC benchmark interest rate (the “PBOC Benchmark Rate”). The PBOC Benchmark Rate may fluctuate significantly due to changes in the PRC government’s monetary policy. Due to the restriction that our interest rate cannot be higher than three times the PBOC Benchmark Rate pursuant to certain Jiangsu banking regulations released in October 2012, if we have to reduce the interest rate we charge the borrowers to reflect the decrease of the PBOC Benchmark Rate, our interest rate spread will be negatively affected. As a microcredit company, our business is subject to greater credit risks than larger lenders, which could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay the outstanding loans balances in our direct loan business or that we may not recover the full amount of the payment we made to the lender in our guarantee business. As a microcredit company, we extend credits to SMEs, farmer and individuals. These borrowers generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. Such borrowers may expose us to greater credit risks than lenders lending to larger, better-capitalized state-owned businesses with longer operating histories. Conditions such as inflation, economic downturn, local policy change, adjustment of industrial structure and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk more than such events would affect larger lenders. In addition, since we are only permitted to provide financial services to borrowers located in the city of Wujiang, our ability to geographically diversify our economic risks is limited by the local markets and economies. Also, decreases in local real estate value could adversely affect the values of the real property used as collateral in our direct loan and guarantee business. Such adverse changes in the local economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans and the value of our collateral and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb future losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our risk assessment procedure uses historical information to estimate any potential losses based on our experience, judgment, and expectations regarding our borrowers and the economic environment in which we and our borrowers operate. The allowance for both loan losses and guarantee services were estimated based on 1% of the quarterly outstanding loan and guarantee portfolio balances. We believe we are required to establish an allowance for loan losses pursuant to “The Guidance on Provisioning for Loan Losses” (the “Provision Guidance”) issued by PBOC and “Financial Practices of Rural Microcredit Companies of Jiangsu Province Pilot” (the “Jiangsu Financial Practices”) issued by Finance Office of Jiangsu Province in 2009. However, our implementation of the measurements set forth in the Provision Guidance and the Jiangsu Financial Practices, especially the Five-Tier approach in making the specific reserve, may be deemed not in compliance with the applicable banking regulations. Our loan loss reserves may not be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 27 Increase to the allowance for loan losses will cause our net income to decrease. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on local economic conditions. These fluctuations are neither predictable nor within our control and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. We may decide to increase our allowance for loan losses in light of the lack of clarity in the applicable banking regulations with regard to microcredit companies. The regulatory authority may also require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We lack product and business diversification. Accordingly, our future revenues and earnings are more susceptible to fluctuations than a more diversified company. Currently, our primary business activities include offering direct loans and providing guarantee services to our customers. If we are unable to maintain and grow the operating revenues from our business or develop additional revenue streams, our future revenues and earnings are not likely to grow and could decline. Our lack of product and business diversification could inhibit the opportunities for growth of our business, revenues and profits. Competition in the microcredit industry is growing and could cause us to lose market share and revenues in the future. We believe that the microcredit industry is an emerging market in China. We may face growing competition in the microcredit industry and we believe that the microcredit market is becoming more competitive as this industry matures and begins to consolidate. We currently compete with traditional financial institutions, other microcredit companies, and some cash-rich state-owned companies or individuals that lend to SMEs. Some of our competitors have larger and more established borrower bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby adversely affecting our earnings and potential for growth. Our business depends on the continuing efforts of Mr. Qin and other members of our management. If we lose their services, our business may be severely disrupted. Our business operations depend on the continuing efforts of Mr. Qin and other members of our management. If one or more of our management were unable or unwilling to continue their employment with us, we might not be able to replace them in a timely manner, or at all. We may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified replacements. Our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, members of our management team may join a competitor or form a competing company. We may not be able to successfully enforce any contractual rights we have with our management team, in particular in China, where all of these individuals reside and where our business is operated through Wujiang Luxiang through various VIE Agreements. As a result, our business may be negatively affected due to the loss of one or more members of our management. We require highly qualified personnel and if we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Expansion of our business and our management will require additional managers and employees with industry experience, and our success will be highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and other employees. We may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is significant in China. This competition may make it more difficult and expensive to attract, hire and retain qualified managers and employees. 28 We have no insurance coverage for our lending or guarantee business or our bank accounts, which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. Risks associated with our business and operations include, but are not limited to, borrowers' failure to repay the outstanding principal and interest when due and our loss reserve is not sufficient cover such failure, losses of key personnel, business interruption due to power shortages or network failure, and risks posed by natural disasters including storms, floods and earthquakes, any of which may result in significant costs or business disruption. We do not maintain any credit insurance, business interruption insurance, general third-party liability insurance, nor do we maintain key-man life insurance or any other insurance coverage except the mandatory social insurance for the employees of Wujiang Luxiang. If we incur any loss that is not covered by our loss reserve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain our cash with various banks. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank or trust company holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we could lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank or trust company. Risks Relating to Our Financial Leasing Business In the event we are not able to consummate the Secondary Offering or raise sufficient proceeds from the Secondary Offering, our business plan for the financial leasing business may be negatively affected. In the event that we are not able to consummate the Secondary Offering or raise sufficient proceeds from the Secondary Offering, we will have to raise the required capital via a private offering or other forms of financing or use cash generated from our direct lending and guarantee operations to fund PFL’s operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the required capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, the terms of such financing may be dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise on terms not favorable to us or the existing shareholders. If we are unable to secure the required capital for our financial leasing business, we may be required to change or put off our financial leasing operations. We have not generated any revenue from our financial leasing operations as of now and our financial leasing business plan may not be executed as planned. We are currently at the initial stage of developing our financial leasing business. To date, we have not generated any revenue for our financial leasing operations. The success of our financial leasing operations will highly depend upon our ability to successfully develop and market our financial leasing services to the targeted customers. We may not be able to develop our financial leasing business as planned and generate revenues. The revenue and income potential of our proposed financial leasing business is unproven and the lack of operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the future prospects of this business. We have no experience in the equipment leasing and financing business and our knowledge of the Chinese financial leasing market is limited. None of the PFL management has any prior experience in the operation or management of equipment financing and leasing. Our knowledge of the Chinese financial leasing industry and market is very limited. Our perception of the potential customers’ needs and their acceptance of our financial leasing services may not be accurate. We may not be able to work with equipment providers to successfully purchase qualified equipment identified by our customers on terms acceptable to us. We may not be able to establish sound financial modeling in the calculation of the interest rate and residual value. Such inexperience and lack of active knowledge may lead to failure of our financial leasing business. Lack of knowledge of financial leasing benefits among potential customers may make it difficult for us to market our services. Currently, a high proportion of Chinese management, especially management of SMEs, still perceive leasing companies as a “second-class bank”, and very few recognize the flexibility and benefits that financial leasing provides. We may need to invest a tremendous amount of time and effort toward lease education so that potential customers can fully appreciate the flexibility leasing offers to deploy their assets. Failure in such education may make it difficult for us to market our financial leasing services. A protracted economic downturn may cause an increase in defaults under our leases and lower demand for the commercial equipment we lease. A protracted economic downturn, similar to the one China experienced in recent years, could result in a decline in the demand for some of the types of equipment or services we finance, which could lead to a decline in originations. A protracted economic downturn may slow the development and continued operation of small commercial businesses, which is one of the primary markets for the commercial equipment leased by us. In addition, a protracted downturn could result in an increase in delinquencies and defaults by our lessees and other obligors, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Our allowance for lease credit losses may prove to be inadequate to cover future credit losses. We will maintain an allowance for credit losses on our leases, at an amount we believe is sufficient to provide adequate protection against losses on the leases. We cannot be sure that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover losses caused by adverse economic factors, or unfavorable events affecting specific leases, industries or geographic areas. Losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are vulnerable to changes in the demand for the types of equipment we plan on leasing or price reductions in such equipment. Our leasing portfolio will be comprised of a wide variety of equipment including, but not limited to, public transportation vehicles such as subway cars, trains, buses, medical equipment, equipment used in textile production and agricultural equipment. Reduced demand for financing of the types of equipment we lease could adversely affect our lease origination volume, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological advances may lead to a decrease in the price of these types of equipment and a consequent decline in the need for financing of such equipment. These changes could reduce the need for outside financing sources that would reduce our lease financing opportunities and origination volume in such products. In the event that demand for financing the types of equipment that we lease declines, we will need to expand our efforts to provide lease financing for other products. We may face growing competition, which could cause us to lower our lease rates, hurt our origination volume and strategic position and adversely affect our financial results. The Chinese financial leasing industry is becoming competitive in recent years. We will compete for customers with a number of international, national, regional and local banks and finance companies and financial leasing companies. Our competitors also include equipment manufacturers that lease or finance the sale of their own products. Our competitors include larger, more established companies, some of which may possess substantially greater financial, marketing and operational resources than us, including lower cost of funds and access to capital markets and other funding sources which may be unavailable to us. If a competitor was to lower its lease rates, we could be forced to follow such trend or be unable to retain origination volume, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If PFL were to lose key personnel, its operating results may suffer. The success of our financial leasing business depends to a large extent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Mr. Huichun Qin, President and Chief Executive Officer of CCC, and Mr. Baisheng Zhao, PFL’s General Manager, and our other senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of the key members of our senior management before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have a material adverse effect on the development and success of our financial leasing business. Recently proposed accounting changes may negatively impact the demand for equipment leases. On August 17, 2010, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) released a joint exposure draft that would dramatically change lease accounting for both lessees and lessors by requiring balance sheet recognition of all leases. At their June 13, 2012, joint board meeting, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the FASB (collectively, the “Boards”) agreed on an approach for the accounting for lease expenses as part of their joint project to revise lease accounting. In September 2012, the Boards reached tentative decisions regarding sale and leaseback transactions and other lease accounting issues. The Boards issued revised exposure draft in May 2013, with a 120-day comment period. As part of the deliberation process, the Boards reviewed nearly 800 comment letters and held public roundtable meetings and preparer workshops. A key issue raised by stakeholders in this process was the front-loading of expense recognition for lessees in the proposal. The Boards have tentatively agreed to change the expense recognition pattern and income statement presentation for certain leases. If these accounting changes are adopted in a form that makes equipment leasing less attractive to small business owners, it could result in a reduction in the demand for equipment leases, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investments in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using proceeds from our financing activities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries or finance our operating entity by means of loans or capital contributions. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the difference between the amount of our investments and registered capital in such subsidiaries, and shall be registered with SAFE, or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital increase contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, shall be approved by MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital to increase contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 30 A slowdown of the Chinese economy or adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could negatively impact China’s overall economic growth, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are a holding company and all of our operations are entirely conducted in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown in recent years, such growth may not continue. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our direct lending, guarantee and financial leasing services and may have a materially advserse affect on our business. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past few decades, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and economic sectors. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any actions and policies adopted by the PRC government could negatively impact the Chinese economy, which could materially adversely affect our business. Substantial uncertainties and restrictions with respect to the political and economic policies of the PRC government and PRC laws and regulations could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. However, the government of the PRC may not continue to pursue these policies, or may significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with borrowers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. Only after 1979 did the Chinese government begin to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws that regulate economic affairs in general, deal with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, as well as encourage foreign investment in China. Although the influence of the law has been increasing, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. Also, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, there have been constant changes and amendments of laws and regulations over the past 30 years in order to keep up with the rapidly changing society and economy in China. Because government agencies and courts provide interpretations of laws and regulations and decide contractual disputes and issues, their inexperience in adjudicating new business and new polices or regulations in certain less developed areas causes uncertainty and may affect our business. Consequently, we cannot clearly foresee the future direction of Chinese legislative activities with respect to either businesses with foreign investment or the effectiveness on enforcement of laws and regulations in China. The uncertainties, including new laws and regulations and changes of existing laws, as well as judicial interpretation by inexperienced officials in the agencies and courts in certain areas, may cause possible problems to foreign investors. Our microcredit business is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by state, provincial and local government authorities, which may interfere with the way we conduct our business and may negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to extensive and complex state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations with regard to our loan and guarantee operations, capital structure, allowance for loan losses, among other things, as set out in the section “Business - Applicable Government Regulations” on page 21 of this report. These laws, rules and regulations are issued by different central government ministries and departments, provincial and local governments while enforced by different local authorities in the city of Wujiang. In addition, it is not clear whether microcredit companies are subject to certain banking regulations the state-owned and commercial banks are subject to, including the regulation with regard to loan loss reserves. Therefore the interpretation and implementation of such laws, rules and regulations may not be clear and occasionally we have to depend on oral inquiries with local government authorities. As a result of the complexity, uncertainties and constant changes in these laws, rules and regulation, including changes in interpretation and implementation of such, our business activities and growth may be adversely affected if we do not respond to the changes in a timely manner or are found to be in violation of the applicable laws, regulations and policies as a result of a different position from ours taken by the competent authority in the interpretation of such applicable laws, regulations and policies. If we were found to be not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities, monetary penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse affect on our business operation and profitability. 31 Lack of financial leasing regulations could negatively impact our business. Currently, there is no uniform equipment title registration process and system in China, as each municipality adopts different procedures. The pending China Financial Leasing Law is expected to unify the registration procedures and protect the lessor against a “good-faith” third-party claim if the leased assets are registered in the lessor’s name. In the absence of such central title registration system, the lessors’ ownership interest on the leased equipment may be threatened. Loss of ownership to the leased equipment will have a negative effect on our financial position. We may be subject to administrative sanctions in the event the extension we obtained on contribution of PFL’s registered capital is reversed or determined to be not effective or if we are not able to contribute the remainder of the registered capital as required. Pursuant to Foreign Wholly-Owned Enterprise Law and relevant implementation rules, 15% of the U.S. $50 million registered capital of PFL is required to be contributed within initial three months of PFL obtaining its business license on September 5, 2013 and the remainder to be contributed within two years after the business license is granted. We did not make any contributions within the three month period since we expected to fund such contribution with the proceeds from the Secondary Offering. Based on our oral inquiries with the local Commission of Commerce of Wujiang, we were told that the required initial installment will be reduced to 10% in 2014 and that the competent authority would refrain from taking specific administrative measures against us once the first installment of capital contribution is paid. In addition, we were told by Wujiang Economic and Technological Development Zone (“WETDZ”), where PFL is incorporated and located, that there will be no penalty for the delayed contribution of the first installment of the registered capital. In the event the orally granted extension or the advice we received from WETDZ is reversed or found to be not valid by a relevant authority, we may be subject to administrative sanctions, including monetary penalties ranging from 5% to 15% of the portion that has not been paid on time. We will contribute all of the net proceeds raised in the Secondary Offering to the registered capital requirement of PFL. However, there can be no assurance that the Secondary Offering shall be consummated. In addition, the new PRC Company Law that become effective on March 1, 2014, radically changed the registered capital requirements, including deleting the requirement to contribute the registered capital within certain time frames. However, it is unclear whether PFL will be subject to the loosened registered capital requirements under the new PRC Company Law and, as a result, be exempted from contributing the remainder of the registered capital within two years after the business license is granted. If it is later determined that PFL cannot enjoy the loosened registered capital requirement set forth in the new Company Law, we would have to contribute 85% of the then registered capital of PFL prior to September 4, 2015. In the event we are not able to make such contribution, we may be subject to administrative sanctions, including monetary penalties ranging from 5% to 15% of the portion that has not been paid on time. Stockholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests and exercising their rights as a stockholder of CCC since we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and almost all of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in Delaware, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Wujiang Luxiang, our consolidated VIE in China and PFL. All of our current officers and almost all of our proposed directors reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult for the stockholders to conduct due diligence on the Company or such directors in your election of the directors and attend shareholders meeting if the meeting is held in China. We plan to have one shareholder meeting each year at a location to be determined, potentially alternating between United States and China. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation doing business entirely or predominantly within the United States. 32 Stockholders may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon United States laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China, and all of our assets are located in China. A majority of our officers are nationals or residents of the PRC and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, Dacheng Law Firm, our counsel as to PRC law, has advised us that it may be difficult for a shareholder to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons, or to enforce judgments against us which are obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. Dacheng Law Firm has further advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. PRC courts may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based either on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on principles of reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other form of reciprocity with the United States that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates the basic principles of PRC laws, national sovereignty, security or public interest. As a result, it is uncertain whether and on what basis a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. Dacheng Law Firm has also advised us that in the event that shareholders originate an action against a company without domicile in China for disputes related to contracts or other property interests, the PRC courts may accept a course of action if (a) the disputed contract was concluded or performed in the PRC, or the disputed subject matter is located in the PRC, (b) the company (as defendant) has properties that can be seized within the PRC, (c) the company has a representative organization within the PRC, (d) the parties choose to submit to jurisdiction of the PRC courts in the contract, or (e) the contract is executed or performed within the PRC. The action may be initiated by the shareholder through filing a complaint with the PRC courts. The PRC courts will determine whether to accept the complaint in accordance with the PRC Civil Procedures Law. The shareholder may participate in the action by itself or entrust any other person or PRC legal counsel to participate on behalf of such shareholder. Foreign citizens and companies will have the same right as PRC citizens and companies in an action unless such foreign country restricts the rights of PRC citizens and companies. We may have difficulty in establishing adequate management and financial controls in China. The PRC has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices that investors in the U.S. are familiar with. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are required of a U.S. public company. If we cannot establish such controls, or if we are unable to collect the financial data required for the preparation of our financial statements, or if we are unable to keep our books and accounts in accordance with the U.S. accounting standards for business, we may not be able to continue to file required reports with the SEC, which would likely have a material adverse affect on the performance of our shares of common stock. WFOE’s ability to pay dividends to us may be restricted due to foreign exchange control and other regulations of China. As an offshore holding company, we may rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China, WFOE and PFL, for our cash requirements. Under the applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a foreign-invested enterprise in China is required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profit to fund specific reserve funds prior to payment of dividends. In particular, at least 10% of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year is required to be set aside towards its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, WFOE’s and PFL’s ability to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control policies and the availability of its cash balance. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and all of our revenue received, by WFOE through VIE arrangement and by PFL, are denominated in RMB. RMB is subject to exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, WFOE and PFL may be unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. dollars. The lack of dividends or other payments from WFOE may limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends or otherwise fund, and conduct our business. Our funds may not be readily available to us to satisfy obligations which have been incurred outside the PRC, which could adversely affect our business and prospects or our ability to meet our cash obligations. Accordingly, if we do not receive dividends from WFOE or PFL, our liquidity and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 33 There is uncertainty in the preferential tax treatment we currently enjoy and financial subsidy commitment we expect to enjoy. Any change in the preferential tax treatment we currently enjoy in the PRC may materially adversely impact our net income. Effective January 1, 2008, the New Enterprise Income Tax Law of PRC stipulates that domestically owned enterprises and foreign invested enterprises (the “FIEs”) are subject to a uniform income tax rate of 25%. While the New Enterprise Income Tax Law equalizes the income tax rates for FIEs and domestically owned enterprises, preferential tax treatment may continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies, regardless of whether these are domestically-owned enterprises or FIEs. Pursuant to the Jiangsu Document No. 132 issued in November 2009, microcredit companies in Jiangsu Province are subject to a preferential tax rate of 12.5%. As a result, Wujiang Luxiang has been subject to the preferential income tax rate of 12.5% since its inception in 2008. The taxation practice implemented by the tax authority governing our business from 2008 through 2011 was that we paid enterprise income taxes at a rate of 25% on a quarterly basis, and upon annual tax settlement done by the Company and the tax authority within five (5) months after December 31, the tax authority refunded us the excess enterprise income taxes we paid beyond the rate of 12.5% in tax credit. In 2013and 2012 the tax authority allowed us to pay enterprise income tax, on a monthly basis, at 12.5% for our income generated from our direct loan business and at 25% for income generated from our guarantee business. During the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, we paid an aggregate $2,191,329 for income tax. We expect to receive a refund of $985,332 prior to May 31, 2014. The refund is the difference between actual income tax prepayment, which is made at 25% for income generated from both our direct loan business and our guarantee business, and the income tax expense, which is calculated at 12.5% for direct loan and 25% for our guarantee business. In addition, Wujiang Luxiang has been subject to business tax at the preferential rate of 3% since its inception in 2008. In April 2012 Wujiang Luxiang received a notice from local tax authority, informing us that only income generated from Wujiang Luxiang’s direct loan business was qualified to enjoy a preferential income tax rate of 12.5% and business tax of 3% under the Jiangsu Document No. 132, but its taxable income arising from Wujiang’s other business such as the guarantee business was still subject to a standard tax rate of 25% for income tax and 5% for business tax. The local tax authority required Wujiang Luxiang to implement the above-mentioned policy starting with the tax filing for 2011 which was filed in April 2012, and the policy applies to all years thereafter. The impact of the changed policy on the income tax provision on the issued financial statements of 2011 was $225,445. However, we believe the underpayment was comparatively minimal as it only accounted for less than 3% of net income of 2011, thus it recorded the underpayment of $225,445 in the financial statements for financial year of 2012. There was no underpayment penalty assessed. Furthermore, such tax policy change may be applied retroactively to financial year of 2008, 2009 and 2010. Although we have not received any notice from local tax authority to request Wujiang Luxiang to make any underpayment with surcharge, there is no assurance that the local tax authority will not do so in the future. There is a risk that the competent tax authority may decide that Wujiang Luxiang will not be eligible for the preferential tax rates for the direct loan business in the future. Moreover, the PRC government could eliminate any of these preferential tax treatments before their scheduled expiration. Expiration, reduction or elimination of such preferential tax treatments will increase our income tax expenses and in turn decrease our net income. There is uncertainty in the policy at the state and provincial levels as to how the direct loan and guarantee businesses carried out by the microcredit companies shall be treated with regard to income tax and business tax. If the tax authority determines that the income tax, business tax or other applicable tax we previously paid were less than what was required, we may be requested to make payment for the overdue tax and interest on the overdue payment. In addition, pursuant to an agreement PFL has with the Wujiang Economic and Technological Development Zone (“WETDZ”), PFL expects to receive from a financial award equal to 100% of the portion of the enterprise income tax proceeds contributed by PFL that is reserved by the WETDZ for the first five years following the date of its establishment, and will further receive a financial award equal to 50% of the portion of the enterprise income tax proceeds contributed by PFL that is reserved by the WETDZ for the following five years. PFL will receive a science and technology financial award from the WETDZ for up to approximately $325,000 (RMB 2 million) to be paid pro rata according to the actually contributed registered capital. In the event that the central government promulgates laws or regulations that expressly prohibit local governments from providing financial subsidies for enterprises’ income tax payment obligation, this agreement with WETDZ may be rendered illegal and/or unenforceable and therefore PFL’s business plan may be negatively affected. Our global income may be subject to PRC taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, which became effective in January 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with a “de facto management body” located within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finance and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise.” On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation (the "SAT"), issued a circular, or SAT Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China. Although the SAT Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in the SAT Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” text should be applied in determining the resident status of all offshore enterprises for the purpose of PRC tax, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. In such case, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the 25% enterprise income tax on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. In addition to the uncertainty regarding how the new PRC resident enterprise classification for tax purposes may apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. 34 Fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate. Exchange rates are affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over three years. From July 2008 until June 2010, however, the RMB traded stably within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against foreign currencies. On June 20, 2010, the PBOC announced that the PRC government would reform the RMB exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. We cannot predict how this new policy will impact the RMB exchange rate. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in the RMB. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar may materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the amount of and any dividends we may pay on our common stock in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Future inflation in China may inhibit economic activity and adversely affect our operations. The Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion in recent years which can lead to high rates of inflation or deflation. This has caused the PRC government to, from time to time, enact various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to once again impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China. Any action on the part of the PRC government that seeks to control credit and/or prices may adversely affect our business operations. PRC laws and regulations have established more complex procedures for certain acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Further to the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, the Anti-monopoly Law of the PRC, the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by MOFCOM or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, was issued in August 2011, which established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities in China by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change of control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC enterprise, or that the approval from MOFCOM be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire affiliated domestic companies. PRC laws and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to merger control review and or security review. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective from September 1, 2011, which implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, further provide that, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review by MOFCOM, the principle of substance over form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. 35 Further, if the business of any target company that we seek to acquire falls into the scope of security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company either by equity or asset acquisition, capital contribution or through any contractual arrangement. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other companies operating in our industry. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulations to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to maintain or expand our market share. In addition, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning Administration Improvement of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, on August 29, 2008. Its subsequent Supplementary Notice on Issues Relating to the Improvement of Business Operations over Payment and Settlement of Foreign Exchange Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises was promulgated by SAFE on July 18, 2011. Under Circular 142, registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC. In addition, foreign-invested companies may not change how they use such capital without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case use such capital to repay RMB loans if they have not used the proceeds of such loans according to the loan agreement. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 19, 2012, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Circular 142 and Circular 59 may significantly limit our ability to effectively use the proceeds from future financing activities as the WFOE may not convert the funds received from us in foreign currencies into RMB, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As our ultimate holding Company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. Our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent SEC’s administrative proceedings against the China affiliates of the five multi-national accounting firms may lead to the deregistering of Chinese accounting firms by the PCAOB, which may affect our ability to engage qualified independent auditors. The SEC recently commenced administrative proceedings against BDO China Dahua Co. Ltd., Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants Ltd., Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, KPMG Huazhen (Special General Fund) and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited for refusing to produce audit work papers and other documents related to PRC-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud against U.S. investors. The SEC has launched an initiative to address concerns arising from reverse mergers and foreign issuers. The SEC charged these accounting firms with violations of the Securities Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires foreign public accounting firms to provide, upon the request of the SEC, audit work papers involving any company trading on U.S. markets. Under PRC law, auditors are not permitted to hand over audit work papers as books and records of Chinese companies are afforded protection of secrecy laws. We are not in a position to assess the outcome or ramifications of these ongoing proceedings and investigations. Unless the PRC government changes its secrecy laws, there are risks that the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) may deregister Chinese accounting firms whose audit work papers the PCAOB cannot inspect and such deregistering of Chinese accounting firms by the PCAOB would, in turn, make it difficult for us to engage qualified independent auditors. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations and our reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company and our business. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend the Company. This situation may be a major distraction to our management. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations will be severely hampered and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. 36 The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Our SEC filings and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review by CSRC, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any review of our company, our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We conduct our lending and guarantee business through Wujiang Luxiang and our peer-to-peer portal business through Pride Online, by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC courts or administrative authorities determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of the contractual arrangements between WFOE and each of Wujiang Luxiang and Pride Online. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Dacheng Law Offices, that based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, rules and regulations, the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with Wujiang Luxiang, Pride Online and their respective shareholders) comply with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and do not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, the PRC courts or regulatory authorities may determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. We are aware of a recent case involving Chinachem Financial Services where certain contractual arrangements for a Hong Kong Company to gain economic control over a PRC Company were declared to be void by the PRC Supreme People's Court. If the PRC courts or regulatory authorities determine that our contractual arrangements are in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, our contractual arrangements will become invalid or unenforceable. If WFOE, Wujiang Luxiang, Pride Online or their ownership structure or the contractual arrangements, are determined to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations, or WFOE, Pride Online or Wujiang Luxiang fails to obtain or maintain any of the required governmental permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: ● revoking the business and operating licenses of WFOE, Pride Online or Wujiang Luxiang; ● discontinuing or restricting the operations of WFOE, Pride Online or Wujiang Luxiang; ● imposing conditions or requirements with which we, WFOE, Pride Online or Wujiang Luxiang may not be able to comply; ● requiring us, WFOE, Pride Online or Wujiang Luxiang to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; ● restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China; or ● imposing fines. The imposition of any of these penalties would severely disrupt our ability to conduct business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 37 On or around September 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the “CSRC”) had prepared a report proposing pre-approval by a competent central government authority of offshore listings by China-based companies with variable interest entity structures, such as ours, that operate in industry sectors subject to foreign investment restrictions. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what any such report provides, or whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or what they would provide. If our ownership structure, contractual arrangements or businesses of Wujiang Luxiang or Pride Online are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities, including the CSRC, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of Wujiang Luxiang or Pride Online, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of Wujiang Luxiang or Pride Online, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from overseas financings to finance our business and operations in China, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with Wujiang Luxiang may not be effective in providing control over Wujiang Luxiang. All of our current revenue and net income is derived from Wujiang Luxiang. According to our inquiries with Jiangsu provincial authorities, provincial direct foreign controlling equity ownership in for-profit companies engaged in rural microcredit services in Jiangsu Province has never been approved and such position will not change in the foreseeable future. Therefore, we do not intend to have an equity ownership interest in Wujiang Luxiang but rely on contractual arrangements with Wujiang Luxiang to control and operate its business. However, these contractual arrangements may not be effective in providing us with the necessary control over Wujiang Luxiang and its operations. Any deficiency in these contractual arrangements may result in our loss of control over the management and operations of Wujiang Luxiang, which will result in a significant loss in the value of an investment in our company. Because of the practical restrictions on direct foreign equity ownership imposed by the Jiangsu provincial government authorities, we must rely on contractual rights through our VIE structure to effect control over and management of Wujiang Luxiang, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the shareholders of Wujiang Luxiang. In addition, as Wujiang Luxiang is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. The failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by offshore special purpose vehicles may subject us to severe fines or penalties and create other regulatory uncertainties regarding our corporate structure. On August 8, 2006, MOFCOM, joined by the CSRC, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (the “SAIC”), and SAFE, jointly promulgated regulations entitled the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the "M&A Rules"), which took effect as of September 8, 2006, and as amended on June 22, 2009. This regulation, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC individuals and companies, to obtain the approval of MOFCOM prior to engaging in such acquisitions and to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock market. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website a notice specifying the documents and materials that are required to be submitted for obtaining CSRC approval. The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our corporate structure remains unclear, with no current consensus existing among leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the M&A Rules. We believe that the MOFCOM and CSRC approvals under the M&A Rules were not required in the context of our share exchange transaction because at such time the share exchange was a foreign related transaction governed by foreign laws, not subject to the jurisdiction of PRC laws and regulations. However, we cannot be certain that the relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC and MOFCOM, would reach the same conclusion, and we cannot be certain that MOFCOM or the CSRC will not deem that the transactions effected by the share exchange circumvented the M&A Rules, and other rules and notices, or that prior MOFCOM or CSRC approval is required for overseas financing. Further, we cannot rule out the possibility that the relevant PRC government agencies, including MOFCOM, would deem that the M&A Rules required us or our entities in China to obtain approval from MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agencies in connection with WFOE’s control of Wujiang Luxiang through contractual arrangements. If the CSRC, MOFCOM, or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC, MOFCOM or other approval was required for the share exchange transaction and/or the VIE arrangements between WFOE and Wujiang Luxiang, or if prior CSRC approval for overseas financings is required and not obtained, we may face severe regulatory actions or other sanctions from MOFCOM, the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines or other penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from overseas financings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies may also take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to delay or cancel overseas financings, to restructure our current corporate structure, or to seek regulatory approvals that may be difficult or costly to obtain. 38 The M&A Rules, along with certain foreign exchange regulations discussed below, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, and we cannot predict how they will affect our acquisition strategy. For example, Wujiang Luxiang’s ability to remit its profits to us, or to engage in foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese domestic residents, over whom we may have no control. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burdens and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications, registrations and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles ("Circular No. 75"), issued on October 21, 2005 and effective as of November 1, 2005 and certain implementation rules issued in recent years, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents, and may affect any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. SAFE Circular No. 75 requires PRC residents, including both PRC legal person residents and/or natural person residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of equity financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an "offshore special purpose company." In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, in connection with any material change involving an increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, failure to comply with the various foreign exchange registration requirements described above could result in liabilities for such PRC subsidiary under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. In addition to the disclosure obligation, the PRC onshore subsidiaries indirectly invested by a PRC resident through that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company's shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, such PRC resident will be subject to administrative penalties under PRC foreign administration regulations, including fines. Although we have requested our PRC shareholders to complete the SAFE Circular No. 75 registration, we cannot be certain that all of our PRC resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, prevent us from transferring the net proceeds of overseas financings or making other capital injection into our PRC affiliates, limit our PRC affiliates' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. Under Notice of the SAFE on Issues Related to Foreign Exchange Administration in Domestic Individual’s Participation in Equity Incentive Plans of Companies listed Aboard (Hui Fa (2012) No. 7), issued and effective as of February 15, 2012 by SAFE ("Circular No. 7"), SAFE requires PRC residents who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company under such company’s employee share option or share incentive plan, through such company’s PRC subsidiary or branch located in the PRC, any other PRC entity that is under control of such company or other qualified PRC agents, or collectively the PRC agent, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan and to open a special foreign currency account and to use such account to pay for funds required for exercising the option and to receive overseas share sale proceeds in foreign exchange and to distribute such proceeds to relevant employees in U.S. dollars or in RMB after conversion. More specifically, the PRC agent can also apply for the annual quota of currency conversion to convert overseas share sale proceeds in U.S. dollars into RMB. In addition, an offshore entity must be appointed to act as trustee to handle share transfer transactions or option exercises relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. We believe that all of our PRC employees who are granted share options are subject to Circular No. 7. If we grant our PRC employees stock options, we will request our PRC management, personnel, directors and employees who are to be granted stock options to register them with local SAFE pursuant to Circular No. 7. However, each of these individuals may not successfully comply with all the required procedures above. If we or our PRC security holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC security holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion and we may become subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. 39 Our agreements with Wujiang Luxiang are governed by the laws of the PRC and we may have difficulty in enforcing any rights we may have under these contractual arrangements. As all of our contractual arrangements with Wujiang Luxiang are governed by the PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Furthermore, these contracts may not be enforceable in China if PRC government authorities or courts take a view that such contracts contravene PRC laws and regulations or are otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over Wujiang Luxiang, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. The Wujiang Shareholders have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. All ultimate individual shareholders of the 11 Chinese entities and Mr. Huichun Qin, which collectively own 100% of Wujiang Luxiang’s outstanding equity interests, or their representatives, are beneficial owners of shares of common stock of CCC through their BVI entities. Equity interests held by each of these shareholders in CCC is less than its interest in Wujiang Luxiang as a result of our introduction of outside investors as shareholders of CCC. In addition, such shareholders’ equity interest in our company will be further diluted as a result of the Secondary Offering as well as any future offering of equity securities. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise as a result of such dual shareholding and governance structure. If such conflicts arise, these shareholders may not act in our best interests and such conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. In addition, these shareholders may breach or cause Wujiang Luxiang to breach or refuse to renew the VIE Agreements that allow us to exercise effective control over Wujiang Luxiang and to receive economic benefits from Wujiang Luxiang. Delaware law provides that directors owe a fiduciary duty to a company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If Huichun Qin, who is one of the shareholders of Wujiang Luxiang and the Chairman of the Board of our company, does not comply with his fiduciary duties to us as a director, or if we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and such shareholders or any future beneficial owners of Wujiang Luxiang, we would have to rely on arbitral or legal proceedings to remedy the situation. Such arbitral and legal proceedings may cost us substantial financial and other resources and result in disruption of our business, the outcome of which may adversely affect the Company. If Wujiang Luxiang, Pride Online or PFL fail to maintain the requisite registered capital, licenses and approvals required under PRC law, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Foreign investment is highly regulated by the PRC government and the foreign investment in the lending industry is restricted by local authorities. Numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, provincial and local authorities are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the lending industry. Foreign investment in the financial leasing industry is also subject to foreign investment regulations. Each of Wujiang Luxiang, Pride Online and PFL are required to obtain and maintain certain assets relevant to its business as well as applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their current services. These registered capital and licenses are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, Wujiang Luxiang, Pride Online and PFL may be required to obtain additional licenses. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required registered capital, licenses or approvals, our continued business operations in the lending, peer-to-peer portal and leasing industries may subject us to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net revenue, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of Wujiang Luxiang, PFL or Pride Online will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our common stock may be thinly traded and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our common stock may be “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and might be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Broad or active public trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. 40 The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations due to factors such as: · the perception of U.S. investors and regulators of U.S. listed Chinese companies; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · negative publicity, studies or reports; · conditions in Chinese credit markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other microcredit companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock may have, when compared to seasoned issuers, significant price volatility and we expect that our share price may continue to be more volatile than that of a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. As an “emerging growth company” under applicable law, we will be subject to lessened disclosure requirements. Such reduced disclosure may make our common stock less attractive to investors. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we will elect to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies”, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Because of these lessened regulatory requirements, our stockholders would be left without information or rights available to stockholders of more mature companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital when we need to do it. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company”, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 41 We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations that affect public companies, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. As a public company and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404(b) and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as Section 14 rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. In addition, our management team will also have to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2014, the first fiscal year beginning after our initial public offering. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting and, after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if, when required, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, if we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. However, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any July 31 before that time, our revenues exceed $1 billion, or we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following January 31. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. 42 Provisions in our By-laws and Delaware laws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our by-laws and Delaware laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and · the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our certificate of incorporation and the existence of indemnification of our directors, officers and employees under Delaware law may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to us and our stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under the corporate laws of Delaware. We may also provide contractual indemnification obligations under agreements with our directors, officers and employees. These indemnification obligations could result in our incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage us from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breach of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company and our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 