D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, which we believe are the material risks of our business and our industry, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common shares could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common shares. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. Risks Related To Our Business Sales of our software licenses and the related revenue from those sales, particularly those sales made through our direct sales force, require significant time and effort and are therefore difficult to predict accurately. In addition, since the majority of our expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, if those revenue levels are not met, we may not be able to reduce our expenses in a timely manner to offset a shortfall in revenue. This unpredictability in the timing or amount of our receipt of revenue may cause our quarterly results of operations to vary considerably and the market price of our common shares to be materially adversely affected. Many of our contracts, particularly those sold through our direct sales force, are finalized in the latter portions of any given quarter. Additionally, our revenue may vary from quarter to quarter, depending on the timing and size of our license revenue, which may contain individually large contracts in any given period. Our first and third fiscal quarters have historically been weaker than our second and fourth quarters. If we fail to execute on expected sales during the latter part of any given quarter, we may be unable to offset any of the anticipated lost revenues from such expected sales for such quarter and our results of operations may be materially impacted. Our direct sales force’s efforts to attract new customers require substantial time and effort, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing new relationships or maintaining or advancing our current relationships. Further, many of our customers typically require one or more internal levels of approval before they can purchase our products and services. As a result, during our sales efforts, we must identify multiple people involved in the purchasing decision and devote a sufficient amount of time to presenting our products and services to those individuals. The breadth of our offerings often requires us to spend substantial time and effort assisting potential customers in evaluating our products and services, including providing demonstrations and benchmarking against other available offerings. This process can be costly and time consuming, and we often do not know if any given sales efforts will be successful until the latter stages of those efforts. Additionally, if we are unable to forecast market demand and conditions, we may not be able to expand or decrease our sales efforts at appropriate times and our revenue and related results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We plan our expenditures based on anticipated future revenue. If the timing or amount of revenue fails to meet our expectations in any given quarter, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected because only small portions of expenses vary with revenue. Quarterly or annual operating results that are not in line with our own guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and other investors could materially adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon to predict future performance. Our failure to successfully develop, market or sell new products or adopt new technology platforms could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our software competes in a market characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving standards in software technology and frequent new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological changes in our industry. In addition, the introduction of new products or updated versions of existing products has inherent risks, including, but not be limited to, risks concerning: • product quality, including the possibility of software defects, which could result in claims against us or the inability to sell our software products; • the fit of the new products and features with a customer’s needs; • the need to educate our sales, marketing and services personnel to work with the new products and features, which may strain our resources and lengthen sales cycles; • market acceptance of initial product releases; • marketing effectiveness; and 9 Table of Contents • the accuracy of research or assumptions about the nature and extent of customer demand. We may need to adopt newer technology platforms for our enterprise software products as older technologies become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making the transition to new technology platforms for our products in the future. We may be unable to adapt to the new technology, may encounter errors resulting from a significant rewrite of the software code for our products or may be unable to complete the transition in a timely manner. In addition, as we transition to newer technology platforms for our products, our customers may encounter difficulties in the upgrade process, delay decisions about upgrading our products or review their alternatives with a competing supplier. Because we commit substantial resources to developing new software products and services, if the markets for these new products or services do not develop as anticipated, or demand for our products and services in these markets does not materialize or materializes later than we expect, we may have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient offsetting or resulting revenue, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Developing, enhancing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our future plans include significant additional investments in research and development of our software and other intellectual property. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we may not receive significant revenue from these investments for several years, if at all. In addition, as we or our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, the demand for our products, particularly older versions of our products, may decline. If we are unable to provide continued improvements in the functionality of our older products or move users that are using our older products to our newer products, our revenue may decline. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States. Any damage to, or failure of, these facilities could result in interruptions to our service. Interruptions to our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our attrition rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers’ data is currently replicated in near real-time in a facility located in the United States. Companies and products added through acquisition may be temporarily served through alternate facilities. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions to our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted. In addition, as we continue to add data centers and add capacity in our existing data centers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers’ data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Revenue from such services is not material in the current period, however significant growth is anticipated in future periods. We may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions or investments in other companies or technologies which could lead to our revenue not growing at an acceptable rate and may in turn harm our business. Our business has expanded, in part, as a result of acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies. We intend to consider additional acquisitions of companies, products and technologies, as well as investments in other businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify other suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make other acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we agree to purchase a company, technology or other assets, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating the purchase. If we are unable to continue to expand through acquisitions, our revenue may fail to grow or may decline, and our business may be harmed. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our consummated acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if an acquired business’ results of operations do not meet our expectations, we may record charges to earnings and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of acquired businesses; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company into our organization; • ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or services; • additional financing required to make contingent payments; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • inability to maintain our standards, controls, procedures and policies; • litigation arising out of the activities of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or other third-parties; • in the case of acquisitions made across multiple geographic areas, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology; and • increased fixed costs. While we have not experienced any material issues associated with integrating acquisitions completed to date, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses in the future, as a result of these and other risks, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could adversely impact our business. We will incur costs in connection with executing our acquisition strategy. Fees related to our acquisition strategy include amounts incurred during the evaluation of possible acquisition targets that may, or may not, ultimately be acquired by us. These costs, in addition to the time of our management and employees, include amounts payable to attorneys and other professional services firms. All fees relating to our acquisition strategy are expensed as incurred. In addition to costs to consummate an acquisition, we may record a significant amount of other charges to our operating results that are directly related to our acquisitions, including those acquisitions that are deemed to be operationally or strategically successful, including: the amortization of intangible assets acquired; charges to our operating results due to the accounting for contingent payments made in connection with acquisitions; costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our combined operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions after the measurement period of any given acquisition has ended; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain equity awards assumed in an acquisition. The accounting for acquisitions requires assets and liabilities to be stated at their acquisition date fair value, which generally results in an increase being recorded to the historic value of net assets, including recording the fair value of assets such as acquired intangible assets and goodwill, and also including a reduction in the value of acquired deferred revenue. The increased value of net assets generally results in lower post-acquisition earnings when compared to the pre-acquisition earnings of the acquired businesses. These costs, when and if recorded, could be material and could differ substantially from costs recorded in prior years. Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely affect us. Our revenue was adversely affected in each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, in part due to unfavorable global economic conditions, including the recessionary economic environment in many southern European and other countries, as well as the slowdown in the financial services industry. These macroeconomic trends could continue to negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways, which, in turn, could adversely affect our share price. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate some of the other risk factors described herein. Our customers may defer or reduce purchases of our software licenses and services. Our customers may also not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to 11 Table of Contents make timely payments to us or ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws. In addition, a significant portion of our revenues are generated from users in the financial services, insurance and government markets, including the U.S. federal government. A decline in revenues generated from users in these sectors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future revenue depends in part on our installed user base continuing to purchase software licenses, renew customer maintenance agreements and purchase additional professional services. If existing customers do not continue, or expand, the use of our products or services our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The success of a portion of our strategic plan depends on our ability to expand our installed base of customers’ usage of our products. Our ability to sell additional products to existing customers may depend, in part, on the degree to which new products have been integrated with our existing applications, which may vary with the timing of new product releases or the acquisition of new businesses or products. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license additional products or contract for additional maintenance or other services. In addition, our customer maintenance agreements are generally annually renewable at the customer’s option, and generally do not include mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Maintenance services revenue is primarily influenced by the renewal rate of existing maintenance contracts, the pricing of those renewals and the number and size of new maintenance contracts sold in connection with software licenses. We measure the renewal rates associated with our maintenance revenue, and during each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 those maintenance renewal rates were in excess of 90%. In the future, if we do not maintain a similarly high level of renewals of our customer maintenance contracts, or if our customers fail to license additional products or contract for additional professional services, our revenue and related results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because we recognize certain revenues from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in new business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 36 months. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our attrition rate may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Revenue from such services is not material in the current period, however significant growth is anticipated in future periods. We depend on the services of key personnel to execute our business strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may be unable to operate our business effectively. We believe that the future success of our business depends on the services of a number of key management and operating personnel, including, in particular, our direct sales personnel and our executive management team. Some of these key employees have strong relationships with our customers and our business may be harmed if these employees leave us. In addition, our ability to manage our growth depends, in part, on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software and service companies. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in many of the large, international metropolitan markets in which we have offices, including for example, Irvine, California and Boston, Massachusetts. Several positions require significant training and new hires may, in some cases, take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Further, given the rapid pace of our expansion to date, we may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these key management and operating personnel, including as a result of limitations on the size of stock awards that can be granted to such persons under our existing equity compensation plans (unless the availability of stock awards thereunder is approved for increase by our shareholders or our shareholders approve a new equity compensation plan), our ability to operate our business effectively could be negatively impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately manage our growth may adversely affect our business. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational and financial resources and our infrastructure. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. This will require us to, among other things: • implement additional management information systems; • further develop our operating, administrative, legal, financial and accounting systems and controls; • hire additional personnel; • develop additional levels of management within our company; • locate additional office space in various countries; and • maintain close coordination among our engineering, operations, legal, finance, sales and marketing and customer service and support organizations. Failure to accomplish any of these requirements could adversely affect our ability to deliver our product and service offerings in a timely fashion, fulfill existing customer commitments or attract and retain new customers. We compete in a highly competitive software product and services market, and any failure by us to compete effectively in such a market could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The enterprise software industry in general, and our segments of the market in particular, are highly competitive. Certain of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, broader or more integrated product offerings, larger technical staffs and a larger installed customer base than we do. A number of companies offer products that are similar to our products and target the same markets that we do. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Accordingly, our current or potential competitors may develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop. Additionally, our competitors could combine or merge to become more formidable competitors or may adapt more quickly than we can to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Failure by us to compete effectively could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our strategy, our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our channel partners for a significant portion of our revenue. If we are not successful in maintaining good relations with our channel partners, our ability to grow our business may be harmed, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We sell a significant portion of our licenses and related services through our extensive network of channel partners, with 54%, 54% and 57% of total revenue being derived from channel partners in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These channel partners include authorized resellers, original equipment manufacturers and distributors. We may experience difficulty in maintaining or establishing third-party relationships with our channel partners. Once established, we need to maintain good relationships and communications with our channel partners, including ensuring that we are not competing with these channel partners through our direct sales force. Additionally, we are exposed to the risk that the parties through which we indirectly sell our products and services will not devote sufficient time, attention and resources to learning our products, markets and potential customers and may promote and sell competing products and services. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our channel partners, our ability to organically grow our business could be harmed, which may materially adversely affect our reputation, the reputation of our products in the market and our operating results and financial condition. We have business operations located in many countries and a significant level of operations outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional costs and risks that could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our operations are located outside of the United States. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. We are subject to a variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: • challenges caused by distance as well as language and cultural differences; 13 Table of Contents • general economic conditions in each country or region; • regulatory changes; including reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. • political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; • public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • overlapping or changes in tax regimes; • difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries; • laws such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials; and If we are unable to manage these and other international aspects of our business, our operating results and overall business could be adversely affected. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency values. The majority of our revenue is transacted in the U.S. dollar and the euro, and we incur the majority of our costs in the U.S. dollar, the euro and the British pound, and to a lesser extent in Swiss francs and other currencies. Changes in the relative value of major currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar as compared to each of the euro and the British pound, may significantly affect our operating results. In fiscal 2014, approximately 58%, 21%, 11% and 4% of our revenue were transacted in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and Swiss francs, respectively; in fiscal 2013, approximately 53%, 20%, 13% and 5% of our expenses were transacted in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and Swiss francs, respectively, and in fiscal 2012, approximately 53%, 17%, 17% and 5% of our expenses were transacted in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and Swiss francs, respectively. As we have a significant amount of our euro-denominated transactions associated with revenue, a devaluation of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our results of operations reported in U.S. dollars. As the transactions in British pounds are primarily expenses, a decline of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would negatively impact our results of operations reported in U.S. dollars. We also maintain intercompany trade balances and cash balances that are subject to currency remeasurement, and for which a change in currency exchanges rates between U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and Swiss francs could result in an adverse charge being recorded to our income statement. Our currency remeasurement gains and losses are charged against earnings in the period incurred. At times we may enter into forward contracts for the purpose of hedging all, or a portion of, either our anticipated future currency transactions, or our net investments in, or assets and liabilities of, our subsidiaries located outside of the United States. We may not be able to enter into contracts to hedge our currency exposure in the future, or may not be able to do so on a cost effective basis, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We have organized certain of our software development capabilities in locations outside of the United States, which subjects us to risks that may result in certain staffing and management difficulties. If these risks are not effectively addressed, it could delay development of upgrades and new products, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to our software development centers in Irvine, California and Bedford, Massachusetts, we have software development centers in Hanoi, Vietnam; St. Petersburg, Russia; Freiburg, Germany; Vienna, Austria; Derry, Northern Ireland; and Hyderabad, India. These foreign locations account for approximately two-thirds of our software development personnel. With certain of our software development activities being conducted at geographically dispersed locations, we are subject to various risks, including: language and other communications barriers; cultural differences; time zone differences, which make communications more difficult; and challenges related to the need to remotely manage developers and programmers, particularly when the persons most familiar with the needs of our customer base and the desired new functionality and features are not located there. If we are unable to expand or adequately staff and manage our existing research and development operations located outside of the United States, we may not realize, in whole or in part, the anticipated benefits from these initiatives (including lower research and development expenses), which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, upon us and our customers not infringing upon intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. The technology industry generally is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Historically, many participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property have aggressively asserted their rights. Many of our contracts provide our customers or partners with indemnification with respect to their use of our intellectual property. We cannot predict whether any existing or future third-party intellectual property rights would require us to alter our technologies, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. 14 Table of Contents Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves, our customers or our partners in intellectual property lawsuits by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: • adversely affect our relationships with our current or future customers or partners; • cause delays or stoppages in providing new sales of our products; • divert management’s attention and resources; • require technology changes that would cause us to incur substantial cost; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms; and • require us to cease certain activities. In addition to liability for monetary damages, which may be trebled and may include attorneys’ fees, or, in certain circumstances, our customers’ fees, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide new sales of our products unless we obtain licenses from the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could, for example, be required to cease or materially alter our product offerings and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be materially adversely affected. We regard the protection of our developed technologies and intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, as an important element of our business operations crucial to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property and proprietary rights may reduce our revenue, devalue our brands and property and harm our reputation. We rely primarily on a combination of patent laws, trademark laws, copyright laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. We generally require our employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third-parties except under specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology which is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is our exclusive property. The development of our technology and many of our processes are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key technical personnel. The laws of many countries, including countries where we conduct business, do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and European countries. Further, the laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could materially adversely affect us and our intellectual property. As of June 30, 2014, we have been issued 46 U.S. patents and have 42 pending U.S. patent applications, as well as having been issued 16 foreign patents and having 34 patent applications pending in jurisdictions outside of the United States. We are also in the process of filing additional corresponding foreign applications pursuant to the Patent Cooperation Treaty for our issued U.S. patents and our pending U.S. patent applications. Any “in process” or pending patent applications may or may not be issued and any existing or future patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. The failure of our patents, or our reliance upon copyright and trade secret laws to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. In addition, patents may not be issued for any of our current or any future applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and thus we may not be able to stop our competitors from infringing upon our intellectual property rights. 15 Table of Contents Restrictions in our revolving credit facility may limit our activities. We have a $40.0 million revolving credit facility with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which was initially entered into on August 22, 2011, and was amended and extended on October 14, 2013. The revolving credit facility, as amended, expires on June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2014, we had $39.5 million available under our revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility contains restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make certain investments, make restricted payments, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants. In the event of a default under our revolving credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all then-outstanding borrowings, which we might not be able to do. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are required to guarantee amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility, and we have pledged the shares of certain of our subsidiaries as collateral for our obligations under the revolving credit facility. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate, including allowing lenders under the revolving credit facility to enforce guarantees of our subsidiaries, if any, or exercise their rights with respect to the shares of our subsidiaries pledged as collateral. We may need to raise additional funds to support our business operations or to finance future acquisitions, including through the issuance of equity or debt securities, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations or do not otherwise have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to support our business operations or to finance future acquisitions, we may need to issue debt or equity, if prevailing market conditions are favorable and we are permitted to do so under the terms of our current revolving credit facility. We may not be able to raise cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive to our shareholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price of our common shares. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common shares. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our plans to the extent of available funding, which could harm our ability to grow our business. Our business and products are dependent on the availability, integrity and security of our and other third-party information technology systems. Our information technology (“IT”) systems (including our telecommunications) and related software applications are integral to our business. We rely on controls and systems to ensure data integrity of critical business information. Lack of data integrity could create inaccuracies and hinder our ability to perform meaningful business analysis and make informed business decisions. Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate, copy or pirate our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. A number of websites have been subject to denial of service attacks, where a website is bombarded with information requests eventually causing the website to overload, resulting in a delay or disruption of service. Also, there is a growing trend of advanced persistent threats being launched by organized and coordinated groups against corporate networks to breach security for malicious purposes. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer or telecommunications systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance services for our products. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales, distribution and other critical functions. In the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. Despite network security, disaster recovery and systems management measures in place, we may encounter unexpected general systems outages or failures that may affect our ability to conduct research and development, provide maintenance services for 16 Table of Contents our products, manage our contractual arrangements, accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Additionally, these unexpected systems outages or failures may require additional personnel and financial resources, disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. We may also be required to modify, enhance, upgrade or implement new systems, procedures and controls to reflect changes in our business or technological advancements, which could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. We also outsource certain IT-related functions and support for our software as a service (“SaaS”) subscription offering to third-parties that are responsible for maintaining their own network security, disaster recovery and systems management procedures. If we, or our third-party IT vendors, fail to manage our IT systems and related software applications effectively, it could adversely affect our business operations, operating results and cash flows. We could be subject to potential product liability claims and third-party litigation related to our products and services, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our products are used in connection with critical business functions and may result in significant liability claims if they do not work properly. Limitation of liability provisions included in our license agreements may not sufficiently protect us from product liability claims because of limitations in existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions. The sale and support of our products may give rise to claims in the future that may be substantial in light of the use of those products in business-critical applications. Liability claims could require expenditure of significant time and money in litigation or payment of significant damages which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected by unanticipated performance problems or bugs in our software product offerings. If the software products that we offer and continue to introduce are not accepted in the marketplace, our future financial results could be materially adversely affected. Most of our products are continually being enhanced or further developed in response to general marketplace demands. Accordingly, any unanticipated performance problems or bugs that we have not been able to detect could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, negative publicity regarding us and our products, harm to our customer relationships and exposure to potential liability claims. In addition, if our products do not enjoy wide commercial success, our long-term business strategy could be affected, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be restricted as to how we use or distribute our technologies or may be required to release the source code of certain technologies that may be subject to open source licenses. We have incorporated open source software into our products. Certain open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. Such open source licenses typically mandate that proprietary technologies, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. We take steps to ensure that our proprietary technologies are not combined with, or do not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require our proprietary technologies to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to uncertainty. While our end-user license agreement prohibits the use of our technologies in any way that would cause them to become subject to an open source license, our customers could, in violation of our end user license agreement, combine our technologies with technologies covered by an open source license. In addition, we rely on multiple software engineers to design our intellectual property. Although we take steps to ensure that our engineers do not include open source software in the technologies they design without our permission, we may not exercise complete control over the product development efforts of our engineers and we cannot be certain that they have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary technologies. In the event that portions of our proprietary technologies are determined to be subject to an open source license, we might be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, which could reduce or eliminate our ability to commercialize our products. Also, our ability to market our products depends in part on the existence of proprietary operating systems. If freely distributed operating systems like Linux become more prevalent, the need for our products may diminish and our revenue could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of licenses to use third-party intellectual property or the lack of support or enhancement of such software. We currently utilize a limited number of third-party software providers for inclusion of their intellectual property in our product offerings. If such third-party intellectual property were not available from these or alternative providers, we might experience delays or increased costs in the development of our products. These third-party intellectual property licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, and the intellectual property may not continue to be appropriately supported, maintained, or enhanced by the licensors. The loss by us of the license to use, or the inability by licensors to support, maintain, and enhance any of such intellectual property, could result in increased costs or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent intellectual property is developed or licensed and integrated with internally developed intellectual property. Such increased costs or delays or reductions in product shipments could adversely affect our business. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities which could adversely affect our operating results. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we are subject to lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we are subject to higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, there is a risk that amounts paid or received in transactions between us and our various international subsidiaries in the past and/or the future could be deemed for transfer pricing purposes to be lower or higher than we previously recognized or expected to recognize. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any negative outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and could adversely affect our operating results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially impacted by military actions, global terrorism, natural disasters and political unrest. Military actions, global terrorism, natural disasters and political unrest are among the factors that may adversely impact regional and global economic conditions and, concomitantly, our client’s ability, capacity and need to invest in our services. In addition to the potential impact of any of these events on the business of our clients, these events could pose a threat to our global operations and people. Specifically, our operating headquarters are located in a known seismic area. Unanticipated catastrophes, both in the United States and globally, could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business as well as disrupt our clients’ businesses, which may result in a further adverse impact on our business. As a result, significant disruptions caused by such events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Related to Ownership of Common Shares As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to our U.S. shareholders. We are a foreign private issuer under applicable U.S. federal securities laws, and therefore, we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to a domestic U.S. issuer. As a result, we will not file the same reports that a U.S. domestic issuer would file with the SEC, although we will be required to file with or furnish to the SEC the continuous disclosure documents that we are required to file in the United Kingdom under applicable securities laws. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). Further, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the proxy rules under the Exchange Act. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which would result in significant additional costs and expenses. Under Rule 405, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on December 31, 2014. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future. We will lose our foreign private issuer status if, for example, a majority of our shareholders and a majority of our directors or management are U.S. citizens or residents. If we lose our foreign private issuer status, we will have to comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will become subject to the disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, if we lose our status as a foreign private issuer we will become subject to the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, which are more 18 Table of Contents strenuous than the corporate governance requirements under Bermuda law and those applicable to companies with shares admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange. As a result, the regulatory and compliance costs to us may be significantly higher if we cease to qualify as a foreign private issuer. We are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act of 2012, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We currently prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, which do not have separate provisions for publicly traded and private companies. However, in the event we convert to U.S. GAAP while we are still an “emerging growth company,” we may be able to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period and, as a result, during such time that we delay the adoption of any new or revised accounting standards, our financial statements may not be comparable to other companies that comply with all public company accounting standards. We will remain an “emerging growth company” until the earliest to occur of any of the following: our revenue exceeds $1.0 billion; the date we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period; the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter; or June 30, 2019. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act of 2012 may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it. As a result of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company” and because, if we convert to U.S. GAAP, we will have an extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Future equity issuances or sales of our common shares in the public market could cause our share price to decline. If we issue equity securities in the future, including as consideration for future acquisitions or investments, the ownership interests of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and the market price of our common shares could decline. Additionally, if our shareholders sell a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or if there is a perception that these sales or issuances might occur, the market price of our common shares could decline. 19 Table of Contents Our common shares are listed on two separate stock markets and investors seeking to take advantage of price differences between such markets may create unexpected volatility in our share price; in addition, investors may not be able to easily move shares for trading between such markets. Our common shares are listed and traded on the NASDAQ and the London Stock Exchange. While our shares are traded on both markets, price and volume levels for our common shares could fluctuate significantly on either market, independent of our share price or trading volume on the other market. Investors could seek to sell or buy our shares to take advantage of any price differences between the two markets through a practice referred to as arbitrage. Any arbitrage activity could create unexpected volatility in both our share prices on either exchange and in the volumes of shares available for trading on either market. In addition, holders of shares in either jurisdiction will not be immediately able to transfer such shares for trading on the other market without effecting necessary procedures with our transfer agent. This could result in time delays and additional cost for our shareholders. In addition, we may decide to delist our shares from the London Stock Exchange in the future, in which case shareholders on the London Stock Exchange may seek to sell their shares on the NASDAQ as the date for our delisting on the London Stock Exchange draws near, which could cause the trading price of our common shares on the NASDAQ to decline. Furthermore, following such de-listing, trading in our shares will be available only on the NASDAQ. If we are unable to continue to meet the regulatory requirements for listing on the NASDAQ, we may lose our listing on the NASDAQ, which could further impair the liquidity of our shares. Certain of our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders may be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval. One of our directors, William T. Comfort III beneficially owned approximately 6.4% of our outstanding common shares as of June 30, 2014 and James A. Urry, one of our directors and Mr. Comfort’s brother-in-law, beneficially owned approximately 2.9% of our outstanding common shares as of such date. Messrs. Comfort and Urry are two of the three directors of each of The Natasha Foundation and the NPC Foundation, each a Bermuda formed entity, that owned approximately 8.3% and 2.7%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares as of June 30, 2014. Sales by Mr. Comfort and/or Mr. Urry of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common shares. In aggregating these directors’ beneficial ownership (including for this purpose the shares owned by The Natasha Foundation and the NPC Foundation, if Messrs. Comfort and Urry acted in concert as directors of those entities), with all of our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, they collectively beneficially owned approximately 20.4% of our utstanding shares as of June 30, 2014 (taking into account shares held by our employee benefits trust). Accordingly, Messrs. Comfort and Urry, either alone or in combination with other executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, if they act together, may be able to exercise influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common shares. For information regarding the ownership of our outstanding common shares by our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our future profitability. Although we are organized under the laws of Bermuda, a British overseas territory that is an island located off the coast of the United States, we are a resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs following a review by our directors or for any other reason, we could become, or be regarded as having become, a resident in a jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom. Should we cease to be tax resident in the United Kingdom, we may have exposure related to unexpected tax liabilities, such as a charge of United Kingdom capital gains tax on a deemed disposal at market value of our assets and of unexpected tax charges in other jurisdictions on our income. Similarly, if the tax residency of any of our subsidiaries were to change from their current jurisdiction for any of the reasons listed above, we may be subject to a charge of local capital gains tax on the assets. Furthermore, while we expect we and certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will qualify for the benefits of the Convention between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income and on Capital Gains (the “U.S.-U.K. Treaty”), we have not sought or obtained a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or an opinion of counsel addressing the issue, and there can be no assurances that we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries will qualify for the benefits of the U.S.-U.K. Treaty. 20 Table of Contents We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or certain of our directors or officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Bermuda law as are our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Bermuda legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. However, there can be no assurance that Bermuda law will not change in the future or that it will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the United States, which could adversely affect the rights of investors. Most of our directors and some of the named experts referred to in this report are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by our special Bermuda counsel that uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Furthermore, we have been advised by our special Bermuda counsel that Bermuda courts will not recognize or give effect to U.S. federal securities laws that such Bermuda courts consider to be procedural in nature, are revenue or penal laws or the application of which would be inconsistent with public policy in Bermuda. Certain remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, will not be recognized or given effect to in any action brought before a court of competent jurisdiction in Bermuda where the application of such remedies would be inconsistent with public policy in Bermuda. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violations of U.S. federal securities laws because those laws do not have the force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Shareholders of a Bermuda company may have a cause of action against us or our directors for breach of any duty in the bye-laws or any shareholders’ agreement owed personally by us to the shareholder. Directors of a Bermuda company may be liable, to the company for breach of their duties as directors to that company under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the “Bermuda Companies Act”), and at common law. Such actions must, as a general rule, be brought by the company. Where the directors have carried on an act which is ultra vires or illegal, then the shareholder has the right, with leave of the court, to bring a derivative action to sue the directors on behalf of the company with any damages awarded going to the company itself. Shareholders are also able to take action against a company if the affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or unfairly prejudicial to the shareholders or some number of them, and to seek either a winding-up order or an alternative remedy if a winding-up order would be unfairly prejudicial to them. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or any claims of violations of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act the waiver of which would be prohibited by Section 14 of the Securities Act and Section 29(a) of the Exchange Act. We have provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include, among others: • restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; • provisions substantially equivalent to those contained in the UK Takeover Code, including limitations on the acquisition of additional shares above a 30% threshold, as further set out in the bye-laws; • restrictions on cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • a requirement that shareholders wishing to propose a person for election as a director (other than persons proposed by our Board of Directors) give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 21 Table of Contents U.S. Holders of our common shares could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a Passive Foreign Investment Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. Holders of our common shares and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, “U.S. Holders” include individuals and various entities that are subject to U.S. federal income tax. A corporation is classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all its assets produces or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes among other things, dividends, interest, certain rents and royalties, annuities, certain gains from the sale of stock and securities, and certain gains from commodities transactions. Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC in any previous taxable year, and we do not expect to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a U.S. court could determine that we are a PFIC in any of these years. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. Holders of our common shares could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. The PFIC rules are complex and a U.S. holder of our common shares is urged to consult its own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to it in its particular circumstances. Our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a company whose shares are publicly traded in the U.S., the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the rules of the SEC and NASDAQ impose various requirements on us, including requiring the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives as well as investor relations activities. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, in the future, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by management or our independent registered public accounting firm in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an independent audit of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. Because we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, however, so long as we retain our status as an “emerging growth company,” we are not required to comply with the audit requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We may determine that our current internal audit function may be insufficient, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We also expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or we are unable to obtain an unqualified audit report on our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Moreover, even if we were to conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to remediate any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of U.S. public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. 22 Table of Contents We may, but do not anticipate, paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not currently pay dividends. We last declared and paid cash dividends during our fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, when we paid approximately $2.0 million in dividends. We stopped paying dividends after fiscal 2009 and have since retained all available funds and earnings to support the operation of and to finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to compliance with applicable laws and covenants under our revolving credit facility, which may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends, and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. We may, but do not anticipate, paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. As a result, a return on your investment will only occur if our share price appreciates. 