Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the identified risks actually occurs, or is adversely resolved, our consolidated financial statements could be materially adversely impacted in a particular fiscal quarter or year and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. As a result, the trading price of our Common Stock and your investment in the Company may suffer. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We will rely on our Manager, Owens Financial Group, Inc., to manage our day-to-day operations and select our loans for investment. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to make distributions to you depends upon OFG’s performance in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans for us to invest in and determining the financing arrangements for borrowers. You will have no opportunity to evaluate the financial information or creditworthiness of borrowers, the terms of loans, the real property that is our collateral or other economic or financial data concerning our loans. We are obligated to pay OFG an annual management fee up to 2.75% of the average unpaid balance of our outstanding loans at the end of each month. OFG has no fiduciary obligations to us or our stockholders, is not required to devote its employees full time to our business and may devote time to business interests competitive with our business. Our management has very limited experience operating a REIT, and we cannot assure you that our management’s past experience will be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. If we fail to comply with REIT requirements, we would incur U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level, which would reduce our distributions to you. We have a very short operating history as a REIT, and our management has very limited experience in complying with the income, asset and other limitations imposed by the REIT provisions of the Code. These provisions are complex, and the failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a REIT or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties. In such event, our net income would be reduced and we would have less funds available for distribution to you. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year we first fail to qualify. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes and therefore would have less money available for investments or for distributions to our stockholders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our Common Stock. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders to maintain preferential U.S. federal income taxation as a REIT. 13 We do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. We do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. However, our code of business conduct and ethics contains a conflicts of interest policy that, unless waived in accordance with the code, prohibits our directors and executive officers, as well as personnel of OFG who provide services to us, from engaging in any transaction that involves an actual conflict of interest with us. In addition, our Management Agreement with OFG does not prevent our Manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with us. Our Manager’s liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which our Manager would not be liable. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, OFG does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, none of OFG, its officers, stockholders, directors, employees or advisors, among others, will be liable to us or any subsidiary of ours, to our Board of Directors, or to our or any subsidiary’s stockholders, members or partners for any acts or omissions made pursuant to the Management Agreement, except for acts or omissions constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of OFG’s duties under the Management Agreement, as determined by a final court order. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, OFG, its officers, stockholders, directors, employees and advisors, among others, from all losses (including attorneys’ fees) arising from any acts or omissions of such person made in good faith in the performance of OFG’s duties under the Management Agreement and not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of such duties. Under the Management Agreement, termination of our Manager for cause requires that we provide 30 days’ prior written notice to our Manager. Termination of the Management Agreement with our Manager for cause, including in the event that OFG engages in fraud or embezzlement, misappropriates funds or intentionally breaches the Management Agreement, requires us to provide 30 days’ prior written notice to OFG. Accordingly, if OFG engages in any of the foregoing activities (or any other activities resulting in a for cause termination), our inability to terminate the Management Agreement for at least 30 days may result in inefficiencies and uncertainties that could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Manager’s lack of experience with certain real estate markets could impact its ability to make prudent investments on our behalf. While we invest in real estate loans throughout the United States, the majority of our loans are in the Western United States. Real estate markets vary greatly from location to location, and the rights of secured real estate lenders vary from state to state. OFG may originate loans for us in markets where they have limited experience. In those circumstances, OFG intends to rely on independent real estate advisors and local legal counsel to assist them in making prudent investment decisions. You will not have an opportunity to evaluate the qualifications of such advisors, and no assurance can be given that they will render prudent advice to OFG. Our success depends on key personnel of our Manager, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operating results, and our Manager’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends in part upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel of OFG, including William C. Owens (Chief Executive Officer and President), Bryan H. Draper (Chief Financial Officer), Melina A. Platt (Controller), Andrew J. Navone (Senior Vice President), William E. Dutra (Senior Vice President), Daniel Worley (Senior Vice President) and Brian Haines (Senior Vice President), some of whom would be difficult to replace because of their extensive experience in the field, extensive market contacts and familiarity with our business. If any of these key employees were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. None of these individuals is subject to an employment, non-competition or confidentiality agreement with us or OFG, and we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of them. Our future success also depends in large part upon OFG’s ability to hire and retain additional highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. OFG may require additional operations and marketing people who are experienced in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans and who also have contacts in the relevant markets. If OFG were unable to attract and retain key personnel, the ability of OFG to make prudent investment decisions on our behalf may be impaired. 14 Loan delinquencies and foreclosures may contribute to reductions in our net income and your distributions. As of December 31, 2013, real estate loans of approximately $31,738,000 were impaired. In addition, our investment in loans that were past maturity (delinquent in principal) but less than 90 days delinquent in monthly payments was approximately $1,290,000 as of December 31, 2013 (combined total of delinquent loans of $33,028,000 compared to $49,942,000 as of December 31, 2012). Of the impaired loans and past maturity loans as of December 31, 2013, approximately $6,981,000 were in the process of foreclosure. It is possible that we will continue to experience reduced net income or further losses in the future, thus negatively impacting future distributions. As non-delinquent loans are paid off by borrowers, interest income received by us may be reduced. In addition, we may foreclose on more delinquent loans, thereby obtaining ownership of more real estate that may result in larger operating losses. Management will attempt to sell many of these properties but may need to sell them for losses or wait until market values recover in the future. Defaults on our real estate loans will decrease our revenues and your distributions. We are in the business of investing in real estate loans, and, as such, we are subject to risk of defaults by borrowers. Our performance will be directly impacted by any defaults on the loans in our portfolio. As a specialty finance lender willing to invest in loans to borrowers who may not meet the credit standards of conventional lenders, the rate of default on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the real estate lending industry. Any sustained period of increased defaults could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and the results of our operations, and ultimately your distributions. We seek to mitigate the risk by estimating the value of the underlying collateral and insisting on low loan-to-value ratios. However, we cannot assure you that these efforts will fully protect us against losses on defaulted loans. Any subsequent decline in real estate values on defaulted loans could result in less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made, which may result in our not recovering the full amount of the loan. Any failure of a borrower to repay loans or interest on loans will reduce our revenues and your distributions and the value of your interest in the Company. Our appraisals are generally dated within 12 months of the date of loan origination and may not reflect a decrease in the value of the real estate due to events subsequent to the date of the appraisals. As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio had approximately $31,738,000 in impaired loans, which includes loans in non-accrual status. We also had approximately $53,267,000 of non-income producing real estate held for sale or investment for a total of $85,005,000 in non-performing assets, which represented approximately 46% of our total capital. Our underwriting standards may be more lenient than those of conventional lenders, which could result in a higher percentage of foreclosed properties, which could reduce the amount of distributions to you. Our underwriting standards and procedures may be more lenient than those of conventional lenders in that we will invest in loans secured by property that may not meet the underwriting standards of conventional real estate lenders or make loans to borrowers who may not meet the credit standards of conventional lenders. This may lead to more non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and create additional risks to your return. We approve real estate loans more quickly than other lenders. We rely on third-party reports and information such as appraisals and environmental reports to assist in underwriting loans. We may accept documentation that was not specifically prepared for us or commissioned by us. This creates a greater risk of the information contained therein being out of date or incorrect. Generally, we will spend less time than conventional lenders assessing the character and credit history of our borrowers and the property that secures our loans. Due to the accelerated nature of our loan approval process, there is a risk that the credit inquiry we perform will not reveal all material facts pertaining to the borrower and the security. There may be a greater risk of default by our borrowers, which may impair our ability to make timely distributions to you and which may reduce the amount we have available to distribute to you. We depend upon real estate security to secure our real estate loans, and we may suffer a loss if the value of the underlying property declines. We depend upon the value of real estate security to protect us on the loans that we make. We utilize the services of independent appraisers to value the security underlying our loans. However, notwithstanding the experience of the appraisers, mistakes can be made, or the value of the real estate may decrease due to subsequent events. Our appraisals are generally dated within 12 months of the date of loan origination and may have been commissioned by the borrower. Therefore, the appraisals may not reflect a decrease in the value of the real estate due to events subsequent to the date of the appraisals. For a construction loan most of the appraisals will be prepared on an as-if developed 15 basis. If the loan goes into default prior to completion of the project, the market value of the property may be substantially less than the appraised value. Additional capital may be required to complete a project in order to realize the full value of the property. If a default occurs and we do not have the capital to complete a project, we may not recover the full amount of our loan. Foreclosures create additional ownership risks. When we acquire property by foreclosure, we have economic and liability risks as the owner, such as: • earning less income and reduced cash flows on foreclosed properties than could be earned and received on loans; • not being able to realize sufficient amounts from sales of the properties to avoid losses; • properties being acquired with one or more co-owners (called tenants-in-common) where development or sale requires written agreement or consent by all; without timely agreement or consent, we could suffer a loss from being unable to develop or sell the property; • maintaining occupancy of the properties; • controlling operating expenses; • coping with general and local market conditions; • complying with changes in laws and regulations pertaining to taxes, use, zoning and environmental protection; • possible liability for injury to persons and property; and • possible liability for environmental remediation. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we recorded impairment losses on two and nine of our real estate properties held for sale and investment in the aggregate amount of approximately $666,000 and $4,873,000, respectively. Development on properties we acquire creates risks of ownership we do not have as a lender. When we acquire property by foreclosure or otherwise as a lender, we may develop the property, either singly or in combination with other persons or entities. This could be done in the form of a joint venture, limited liability company or partnership, with OFG and/or unrelated third parties. This development can create the following risks: • Reliance upon the skill and financial stability of third party developers and contractors; • Inability to obtain governmental permits; • Delays in construction of improvements; • Increased costs during development; and • Economic and other factors affecting sale or leasing of developed property. Larger loans result in less diversity and may increase risk. As of December 31, 2013, we were invested in a total of 22 loans, with an aggregate face value of approximately $58,796,000. The average value of those loans was approximately $2,673,000, and the median value was $1,425,000. Ten of such loans had a face value each of 3% or more of the aggregate face value of all loans, and the largest loan relationship had a total face value of 19.5% of total loans. 16 As a general rule, we can decrease risk of loss from delinquent loans by investing in a greater total number of loans. Investing in fewer, larger loans generally decreases diversification of the portfolio and increases risk of loss and possible reduction of return to investors in the case of a delinquency of such a loan. Incorrect original collateral assessment (valuation) could result in losses and decreased distributions to you. Appraisals are obtained from qualified, independent appraisers on all properties securing trust deeds, which may have been commissioned by the borrower and may precede the placement of the loan with us. However, there is a risk that the appraisals prepared by these third parties are incorrect, which could result in defaults and/or losses related to these loans. Completed, written appraisals are not always obtained on our loans prior to original funding, due to the quick underwriting and funding required on the majority of our loans. Although the loan officers often discuss value with the appraisers and perform other due diligence and calculations to determine property value prior to funding, there is a risk that we may make a loan on a property where the appraised value is less than estimated, which could increase the loan’s loan-to-value, or LTV, ratio and subject us to additional risk. We may make a loan secured by a property on which the borrower previously commissioned an appraisal. Although we generally require such appraisal to have been made within one year of funding the loan, there is a risk that the appraised value is less than the actual value, increasing the loan’s LTV ratio and subjecting us to additional risk. Geographical concentration of loans may result in additional delinquencies. Northern California real estate secured approximately 55% of the total loans held by us as of December 31, 2013. Northern California consists of Monterey, Kings, Fresno, Tulare and Inyo counties and all counties north of those. In addition, 13%, 13%, 7%, 4%, 3%, 3% and 2% of total loans were secured by Southern California, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Utah, Washington, Louisiana and Hawaii real estate, respectively. These concentrations may increase the risk of delinquencies on our loans when the real estate or economic conditions of one or more of those areas are weaker than elsewhere, for reasons such as: • economic recession in that area; • overbuilding of commercial or residential properties; and • relocations of businesses outside the area due to factors such as costs, taxes and the regulatory environment. These factors also tend to make more commercial or residential real estate available on the market and reduce values, making suitable loans less available to us. In addition, such factors could tend to increase defaults on existing loans. Commercial real estate markets in California have suffered in recent years, and we expect that this may continue to adversely affect our operating results. In addition, approximately 81% of our loans are secured by real estate in the states of California and Arizona, which have experienced dramatic reductions in real estate values in the past . Investments in construction and rehabilitation loans may be riskier than loans secured by operating properties. Although our loan portfolio contains only one fully funded construction or rehabilitation loan as of December 31, 2013, and we have no outstanding construction or rehabilitation loan commitments as of December 31, 2013, we have made construction and rehabilitation loans in the past, and we may make additional construction and rehabilitation loan commitments in the future. Construction and rehabilitation loans may be riskier than loans secured by properties with an operating history, because: • the application of the loan proceeds to the construction or rehabilitation project must be assured; • the completion of planned construction or rehabilitation may require additional financing by the borrower; and • permanent financing of the property may be required in addition to the construction or rehabilitation loan. 17 Investments in loans secured by leasehold interests may be riskier than loans secured by fee interests in properties. Although our loan portfolio does not contain any loans secured by leasehold interests as of December 31, 2013, we have made such loans in the past, and we may resume leasehold-secured lending in the future. Loans secured by leasehold interests are riskier than loans secured by real property because the loan is subordinate to the lease between the property owner (lessor) and the borrower, and our rights in the event the borrower defaults are limited to stepping into the position of the borrower under the lease, subject to its requirements of rents and other obligations and period of the lease. Investments in second, third and wraparound mortgage and deed of trust loans may be riskier than loans secured by first deeds of trust. Second, third and wraparound mortgage and deed of trust loans (those under which we generally make the payments to the holders of the prior liens) are riskier than first mortgage and deed of trust loans because: • their position is subordinate in the event of default; and • there could be a requirement to cure liens of a senior loan holder, and, if this is not done, we would lose our entire interest in the loan. As of December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio contained 10.1% in second mortgage and deed of trust loans and 0% in third mortgage and deed of trust loans. The second deed of trust loans in our portfolio as of December 31, 2013 are junior to existing first deeds of trust held by us and are secured by the same collateral. As of December 31, 2013, we were not invested in any wraparound mortgage or deed of trust loans. We typically make “balloon payment” loans, which are riskier than loans with payments of principal over an extended period of time. The loans we invest in or purchase generally require the borrower to make a “balloon payment” on the principal amount upon maturity of the loan. A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. As of December 31, 2013, 99.5% of our loans required balloon payments at the end of their terms. Loans with balloon payments are riskier than loans with even payments of principal over an extended time period like 15 or 30 years because the borrower’s repayment depends on its ability to sell the property profitably, obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash when the loan comes due. There are no specific criteria used in evaluating the credit quality of borrowers for loans requiring balloon payments. Furthermore, a substantial period of time may elapse between the review of the financial statements of the borrower and the date when the balloon payment is due. As a result, there is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. Our loans are not insured or guaranteed by any governmental agency. Our loans are not insured or guaranteed by a federally-owned or -guaranteed mortgage agency. Consequently, our recourse if there is a default may only be to foreclose upon the real property securing a loan. The value of the foreclosed property may have decreased and may not be equal to the amount outstanding under the corresponding loan, resulting in a decrease of the amount available to distribute to you. Our loans permit prepayment, which may lower returns. The majority of our loans do not include prepayment penalties for a borrower paying off a loan prior to maturity. The absence of a prepayment penalty in our loans may lead borrowers to refinance higher interest rate loans in a market of falling interest rates. This would then require us to reinvest the prepayment proceeds in loans or alternative short-term investments with lower interest rates and a corresponding lower return to you. 18 Equity or cash flow participation in loans could result in loss of our secured position in loans. We may obtain participation in the appreciation in value or in the cash flow from a secured property. If a borrower defaults and claims that this participation makes the loan comparable to equity (like stock) in a joint venture, we might lose our secured position as lender in the property. Other creditors of the borrower might then wipe out or substantially reduce our investment. We could also be exposed to the risks associated with being an owner of real property. We are not presently involved in any such arrangements. If a third party were to assert successfully that one of our loans was actually a joint venture with the borrower, there might be a risk that we could be liable as joint venturer for the wrongful acts of the borrower toward the third party. Some losses that might occur to borrowers may not be insured and may result in defaults. Our loans require that borrowers carry adequate hazard insurance for our benefit. Some events, however, are uninsurable, or insurance coverage for them is economically not practicable. Losses from earthquakes, floods or mudslides, for example, which occur in California, may be uninsured and cause losses to us on entire loans. Since December 31, 2013, no such loan loss has occurred. While we are named loss payee in all cases and will receive notification in event of a loss, if a borrower allows insurance to lapse, an event of loss could occur before we know of the lapse and have time to obtain insurance ourselves. Insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover property losses, even though OFG imposes insurance requirements on borrowers that it believes are adequate. If any of our insurance carriers become insolvent, we could be adversely affected. We carry several different lines of insurance, placed with several large insurance carriers. If any one of these large insurance carriers were to become insolvent, we would be forced to replace the existing insurance coverage with another suitable carrier, and any outstanding claims would be at risk for collection. In such an event, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace the coverage at similar or otherwise favorable terms. Replacing insurance coverage at unfavorable rates and the potential of uncollectible claims due to carrier insolvency could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We recently entered a new Credit Facility, and additional borrowings by us will increase your risk and may reduce the amount we have available to distribute to you. In February 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement and Advance Formula Agreement with California Bank & Trust (“CB&T”) as the lender and executed a related Master Revolving Note and Security Agreement, which agreements provide us with a new revolving line of credit facility (the “Credit Facility”). The maximum borrowings under the revolving Credit Facility is the lesser of $20,000,000, which is the face amount of the Master Revolving Note, or the amount determined pursuant to a borrowing base calculation described in the Advance Formula Agreement. At any time that the aggregate principal amount of the total borrowings under the Credit Facility exceeds the maximum permitted pursuant to the borrowing base calculation, the Company must promptly repay an amount equal to such excess. Borrowings under the Credit Facility mature on February 5, 2016. Such borrowings will bear interest payable monthly, in arrears, on the first business day of each month, at the prime rate of interest established by CB&T from time-to-time (currently 3.25%) plus one quarter percent (.25%) per annum. Upon a default under the Credit Facility such interest rate increases by 2.00%. We may borrow funds under the Credit Facility or otherwise to expand our capacity to invest in real estate loans or for other business purposes. Such borrowings will require us to carefully manage our cost of funds. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in this effort. Should we be unable to repay the indebtedness and make the interest payments on the Credit Facility or any other loans, the lender will likely declare us in default and require that we repay all amounts owing under the applicable loan facility. Even if we are repaying the indebtedness in a timely manner, interest payments owing on the borrowed funds may reduce our income and the distributions you receive. We may borrow funds from several sources in addition to the Credit Facility, and the terms of any indebtedness we incur may vary. However, some lenders may require as a condition of making a loan to us that the lender will receive a priority on loan repayments received by us. As a result, if we do not collect 100% on our investments, the first dollars may go to our lenders and we may incur a loss which will result in a decrease of the amount available for distribution to you. In addition, we may enter into securitization arrangements in order to raise additional funds. Such arrangements could increase our leverage and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to you. 19 We will need cash to meet our minimum REIT distribution requirements and limit U.S. federal income taxation. Because we will be required to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains) to qualify as a REIT and because we intend to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income and net capital gain, our ability to expand our loan portfolio will depend in large part on external sources of capital. In addition, if our minimum distribution requirements to maintain our REIT status and minimize U.S. federal income taxation become large relative to our cash flow as a result of our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we may be required to borrow funds or raise capital by selling assets to meet those distribution requirements. Any equity financing may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, and any debt financing may include restrictive covenants. We may not be able to raise capital on reasonable terms, if at all. If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase and the value of our properties may decrease. Our Credit Facility and certain other borrowings bear interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest expense under these debt obligations and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Additionally, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the liquidity and value of our real estate holdings and decrease the market price of our Common Stock. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The covenants in our Credit Facility might adversely affect us. Our Credit Facility requires us to satisfy certain affirmative and negative covenants and to meet numerous financial tests, and also contain certain default and cross-default provisions. If any future failure to comply with one or more of these covenants resulted in the loss of this Credit Facility and/or required the immediate repayment of Advances under the Credit Facility and we were unable to obtain suitable replacement financing, such loss could have a material, adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We expect our real estate loans will not be marketable, and we expect no secondary market to develop. We do not expect our real estate loans to be marketable, and we do not expect a secondary market to develop for them. As a result, we will generally bear all the risk of our investment until the loans mature. This will limit our ability to hedge our risk in changing real estate markets and may result in reduced returns to our investors. We may have difficulty protecting our rights as a secured lender. We believe that our loan documents will enable us to enforce our commercial arrangements with borrowers. However, the rights of borrowers and other secured lenders may limit our practical realization of those benefits. For example: • Judicial foreclosure is subject to the delays of protracted litigation. Although we expect non-judicial foreclosure to be quicker, our collateral may deteriorate and decrease in value during any delay in foreclosing on it; • The borrower’s right of redemption during foreclosure proceedings can deter the sale of our collateral and can for practical purposes require us to manage the property; • Unforeseen environmental hazards may subject us to unexpected liability and procedural delays in exercising our rights; • The rights of senior or junior secured parties in the same property can create procedural hurdles for us when we foreclose on collateral; • We may not be able to pursue deficiency judgments after we foreclose on collateral; and • State and federal bankruptcy laws can prevent us from pursuing any actions, regardless of the progress in any of these suits or proceedings. 20 By becoming the owner of property, we may incur additional obligations, which may reduce the amount of funds available for distribution. We intend to own real property only if we foreclose on a defaulted loan and purchase the property at the foreclosure sale. Acquiring a property at a foreclosure sale may involve significant costs. If we foreclose on a security property, we expect to obtain the services of a real estate broker and pay the broker’s commission in connection with the sale of the property. We may incur substantial legal fees and court costs in acquiring a property through contested foreclosure and/or bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, significant expenditures, including property taxes, maintenance costs, renovation expenses, mortgage payments, insurance costs and related charges, must be made on any property we own, regardless of whether the property is producing any income. Under applicable environmental laws, any owner of real property may be fully liable for the costs involved in cleaning up any contamination by materials hazardous to the environment. Even though we might be entitled to indemnification from the person that caused the contamination, there is no assurance that the responsible person would be able to indemnify us to the full extent of our liability. Furthermore, we would still have court and administrative expenses for which we may not be entitled to indemnification. A prolonged economic slowdown, lengthy or severe recession or significant increase in interest rates could harm our business. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods can be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values. Because we are a non-conventional lender willing to invest in riskier loans, rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the mortgage lending industry during periods of economic slowdown or recession. Furthermore, if interest rates were to increase significantly, the costs of borrowing may become too expensive, which may negatively impact new loan originations by reducing demand for real estate lending. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had no new loan originations other than carryback financing related to real estate sales and purchases of loans to protect our interest in certain of our loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses or a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to originate, purchase and securitize loans, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other economic conditions. As of December 31, 2013, most of our loans do not have a prepayment penalty or exit fee. Based on our Manager’s historical experience, we expect that at least 90% of our loans will continue to not have a prepayment penalty. Should interest rates decrease, our borrowers may prepay their outstanding loans with us in order to receive a more favorable rate. This may reduce the amount of income we have available to distribute to you. Our results of operations will vary with changes in interest rates and with the performance of the relevant real estate markets. If the economy is healthy, we expect that more investors will borrow money to acquire, develop or renovate real property. However, if the economy grows too fast, interest rates may increase too quickly and the cost of borrowing may cause real estate values to decline. Alternatively, if the economy enters a recession, real estate development may slow. A slowdown in real estate activity may reduce the opportunities for real estate lending and we may have fewer loans to make or acquire, thus reducing our revenues and the distributions you receive. If, at a time of relatively low interest rates, a borrower should prepay obligations that have a higher interest rate from an earlier period, we will likely not be able to reinvest the funds in loans earning that higher rate of interest. In the absence of a prepayment fee, we will receive neither the anticipated revenue stream at the higher rate nor any compensation for its loss. This is a risk if the loans we invest in do not have prepayment penalties or exit fees. We face competition for real estate loans that may reduce available returns and fees available. Our competitors consist primarily of other mortgage REIT’s, conventional real estate lenders and real estate loan investors, including commercial banks, insurance companies, mortgage brokers, pension funds and other institutional lenders. Many of the companies against which we and OFG compete have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than us or OFG. If our competition decreases interest rates on their loans or makes funds more easily accessible, we may be required to reduce our interest rates, which would reduce our revenues and the distributions you receive. 21 Our Manager serves pursuant to a long-term Management Agreement that may be difficult to terminate and may not reflect arm’s-length negotiations. We entered into a long-term Management Agreement with OFG. The Management Agreement will continue in force for the duration of the existence of Owens Realty Mortgage, Inc., unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement may be terminated prior to the termination of our existence: (a) upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock; (b) by OFG pursuant to certain procedures set forth in the Management Agreement relating to changes in compensation; (c) automatically in the event of an assignment of the Management Agreement by OFG (with certain exceptions), unless consented to by the Company with the approval of the Board of Directors and holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock entitled to vote on the matter; (d) by us upon certain conditions set forth in the Management Agreement, including a breach thereof by OFG; or (e) by OFG upon certain conditions set forth in the Management Agreement, including a breach thereof by the Company. Consequently, it may be difficult to terminate our Management Agreement and replace OFG in the event that its performance does not meet our expectations or for other reasons, unless the conditions for termination of the Management Agreement are satisfied. The Management Agreement was negotiated by related parties and may not reflect terms as favorable as those subject to arm’s-length bargaining. Our Manager will face conflicts of interest concerning the allocation of its personnel’s time. Our Manager and William C. Owens, who owns 56.0976% of the outstanding shares of stock of OFG, although unlikely, may also sponsor other real estate programs having investment objectives and policies similar to ours. As a result, OFG and William C. Owens may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between our business and other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, OFG and its key people may devote less time and resources to our business than they ordinarily would. Our Management Agreement with OFG does not specify a minimum amount of time and attention that OFG and its key people are required to devote to the Company. Thus, OFG may not spend sufficient time managing our operations, which could result in our not meeting our investment objectives. Currently, OFG does not sponsor other real estate programs or any other programs that have an objective and policies similar to those of the Company. Our Manager will face conflicts of interest arising from our fee structure. OFG will receive fees from borrowers that would otherwise increase our returns. Because OFG receives all of these fees, our interests will diverge from those of OFG and William C. Owens when OFG decides whether we should charge the borrower higher interest rates or OFG should receive higher fees from borrowers. OFG earned a total of approximately $1,816,000, $1,926,000 and $2,577,000 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for managing the Company. In addition, OFG earned a total of approximately $664,000, $61,000 and $955,000 in fees from borrowers for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The total amount earned by OFG that is paid by borrowers represents fees on loans originated or extended for the Company (including loans fees, late payment charges and miscellaneous fees). With respect to properties we acquire through foreclosure, we may be unable to renew leases or re-lease space as leases expire on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution to you, per share trading price of our Common Stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Because we compete with a number of real estate operators in connection with the leasing of our properties, the possibility exists that one or more of our tenants will extend or renew its lease with us when the lease term expires on terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the then-expiring lease, or that such tenant or tenants will not renew at all. Because we depend, in large part, on rental payments from our tenants, if one or more tenants renews its lease on terms less favorable to us or does not renew its lease, or if we do not re-lease a significant portion of the space made available, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution, per-share trading price of our Common Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. 22 If any of our foreclosed properties incurs a vacancy, it could be difficult to sell or re-lease. One or more of our properties may incur a vacancy by either the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. Certain of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of a tenant (e.g., a retail bank branch or distribution warehouse), and major renovations and expenditures may be required in order for us to re-lease vacant space for other uses. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space we have in our properties. If the vacancy continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues, resulting in less cash available to be distributed to you. In addition, the resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. Our properties may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically evaluate our real estate investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the early termination of, or default under, a lease by a tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the property, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge is recorded. Operating expenses of our properties acquired through foreclosure will reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. For certain of our properties acquired through foreclosure, we are responsible for operating costs of the property. In some of these instances, our leases require the tenant to reimburse us for all or a portion of these costs, in the form of either an expense reimbursement or increased rent. Our reimbursement may be limited to a fixed amount or a specified percentage annually. To the extent operating costs exceed our reimbursement, our returns and net cash flows from the property and hence our overall operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We would face potential adverse effects from tenant defaults, bankruptcies or insolvencies. The bankruptcy of our tenants may adversely affect the income generated by our properties. If our tenant files for bankruptcy, we generally cannot evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy. In addition, a bankruptcy court could authorize a bankrupt tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid and future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under the lease. Any shortfall resulting from the bankruptcy of one or more of our tenants could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. We face intense competition, which may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of retail, industrial and office real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If one of our properties becomes vacant and our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer substantial rent abatements. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our Common Stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to you may be adversely affected. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve our foreclosed properties in order to retain and attract tenants, causing a decline in operating revenue and reducing cash available for debt service and distributions to you. If adverse economic conditions continue in the real estate market, we expect that, upon expiration of leases at our properties, we will be required to make rent or other concessions to tenants, and/or accommodate requests for renovations, build-to-suit remodeling and other improvements. As a result, we may have to make significant capital or other expenditures in order to retain tenants whose leases expire and to attract new tenants. Additionally, we may need to raise capital to make such expenditures. If we are unable to do so or capital is otherwise unavailable, we may be unable to make the required expenditures. This could result in non-renewals by tenants upon expiration of their leases, which would result in declines in revenue from operations and reduce cash available for debt service and distributions to you. 23 United States Federal Income Tax Risks Relating to Our REIT Qualification Our failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which would reduce amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Following the Merger, we intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. Our qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We intend that our organization and method of operation will qualify us as a REIT, but we may not be able to remain so qualified in the future. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or adversely affect our stockholders. We intend to hold certain property foreclosed upon by OMIF prior to the REIT conversion through one or more wholly-owned corporate taxable REIT subsidiaries. Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, and a taxable REIT subsidiary generally cannot operate a lodging or health care facility. These limitations may limit our ability to hold properties through taxable REIT subsidiaries. In the event that we determine that the foreclosed properties are held for investment and, therefore, are not subject to the 100% tax on prohibited transactions, there is no guarantee that the IRS will agree with our determination. Finally, in the event that any of our foreclosed properties constitute lodging or health care facilities that cannot be operated by a taxable REIT subsidiary, such properties will be operated by an “eligible independent contractor,” as defined in Section 856(d)(9)(A) of the Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates, and we would not be allowed to deduct distributions made to our stockholders in computing our taxable income. We may also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify. The additional tax liability would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. We cannot assure you that we will have access to funds to meet our distribution and tax obligations. In order to qualify as a REIT, we will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain). Furthermore, we will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxation on our undistributed income and gain. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders of substantially all of our income and gain so as to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and limit corporate-level U.S. federal income taxation of the Company. Although we generally do not intend to make distributions in excess of our REIT taxable income and any net capital gain, we may do so from time to time. A distribution of REIT taxable income or net capital gain generally will be a taxable distribution to you and not represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we make distributions in excess of our REIT taxable income and any net capital gain, the excess portion of these distributions generally would represent a non-taxable return of capital for such purposes up to your tax basis in your Common Stock and then generally capital gain. The portion of any distribution treated as a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes would reduce your tax basis in your Common Stock by a corresponding amount. Differences in timing between taxable income and cash available for distribution could require us to borrow funds or raise capital by selling assets to enable us to meet these distribution requirements. We also could be required to pay taxes and liabilities in the event we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. Our inability to retain earnings (resulting from these distribution requirements) generally may require us to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. There can be no assurance that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would be available to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Changes in the tax laws could make investments in REITs less attractive and could reduce the tax benefits of our REIT conversion. The U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs and the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended or changed at any time. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a stockholder. 24 Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax, which may devalue our Common Stock relative to other companies. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are corporations subject to corporate-level tax. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may cause the market to value our Common Stock lower than the stock of other publicly traded REITs which may not use taxable REIT subsidiaries and lower than the equity of mortgage pools taxable as non-publicly traded partnerships, which generally are not subject to any U.S. federal income taxation on their income and gain. Distributions from a REIT are currently taxed at a higher rate than corporate distributions. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on both distributions from certain domestic and foreign corporations and net capital gain for individuals is 20%. However, this rate of tax on distributions generally will not apply to our distributions (except those distributions identified by the Company as “capital gain dividends” which are taxable as long-term capital gain), and therefore such distributions generally will be taxed as ordinary income. Ordinary income generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 39.6% for individuals. The higher tax rate on the Company’s distributions may cause the market to devalue our Common Stock relative to stock of those corporations whose distributions qualify for the lower rate of taxation. A portion of our business is potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax. As a REIT, we are subject to a 100% tax on our net income from any “prohibited transactions.” In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including loans, held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Sales by us of property in the ordinary course of our business will generally constitute prohibited transactions. The Company might be subject to this tax if it was to sell a property or loan in a manner that was treated as a sale of inventory for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of properties or loans, other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, and will attempt to comply with the terms of safe-harbor provisions in the U.S. federal income tax laws prescribing when a sale of real property or a loan will not be characterized as a prohibited transaction, even though the sales might otherwise be beneficial to us. We cannot assure you however, that we can comply with the safe-harbor provisions or that we will not be subject to the prohibited transactions tax on some earned income. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We must comply with various tests to qualify and continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and our income from and investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries do not constitute permissible income and investments for purposes of some of the REIT qualification tests. While we will attempt to ensure that our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely affect our REIT qualification, we cannot assure you that we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or our taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. We may endanger our REIT status if the distributions we receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries exceed applicable REIT gross income tests. The annual gross income tests that must be satisfied to ensure REIT qualification may limit the amount of dividends that we can receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries and still maintain our REIT status. Generally, not more than 25% of our gross income may be derived from non-real estate related sources, such as dividends from a taxable REIT subsidiary. If, for any taxable year, the dividends we receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represent more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied REIT status, unless we were able to demonstrate, among other things, that our failure of the gross income test was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. Risks of Ownership of Our Common Stock The public market for our Common Stock may be limited. There may be limited interest in investing in our Common Stock and, while we are listed on the NYSE MKT and our shares have been trading for a short period, we cannot assure you that an established or liquid trading market for the Common Stock will develop or that it will continue if it does develop. In the absence of a liquid public market with adequate investor demand, you may be unable to liquidate your investment in our Common Stock. 25 Sales of our Common Stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock could adversely affect the market price for our Common Stock. Subject to the restrictions on ownership and transfer in our charter, all of the shares of Common Stock issued in the Merger, other than any shares issued to an “affiliate” under the Securities Act, will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. In addition, none of our shares outstanding upon completion of the Merger will be subject to lock-up agreements. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Common Stock will have on the market price of our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock may be volatile. The market price of our Common Stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Common Stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Given the level of redemption requests by limited partners prior to the Merger, there could be some continuing downward pressure on the market price of our Common Stock after the Merger as stockholders liquidate their investment in the Company. Additionally, the Company will be dissolved on December 31, 2034, unless our charter is amended. As we move closer to the dissolution date, we expect to stop making new loans, and we expect that our stock price will approach our book value per share though there can be no assurances that this will occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Common Stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could negatively affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Common Stock include: • additional increases in loans defaulting or becoming non-performing or being written off; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or distributions; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • changes in tax laws affecting REITs; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur; and • general market and economic conditions. Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our stock price. One of the factors that will influence the price of our Common Stock will be the distribution return on our Common Stock (as a percentage of the price of our Common Stock) relative to market interest rates. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our Common Stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We may incur increased costs as a result of being a listed company. Our Common Stock is listed on the NYSE MKT. As a listed company, we may incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a non-listed company. We will also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, as well as new accounting pronouncements and new rules implemented by the SEC, NYSE MKT, or any other applicable national securities exchange. Any expenses required to comply with evolving standards may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from our business. In addition, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially greater costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The effect of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or board committees. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur in responding to their requirements. 26 Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of the Company In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than the year for which we elect to be taxed as a REIT. Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning actually or constructively more than 9.8%, in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, and 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding Common Stock or the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our Common Stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company The charter and bylaws of the Company and Maryland corporate law contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our Common Stock or otherwise be in their best interests. Subject to certain limitations, provisions of the MGCL prohibit certain business combinations between the Company and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of us who beneficially owned 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock at any time during the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. After the five-year period, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder must generally either provide a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) to our stockholders in cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder or be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of voting stock and at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders other than the interested stockholder and its affiliates and associates. These provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. As permitted by the MGCL, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between us and any other person, provided that the business combination is approved by our Board of Directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons), and between us and OFG and its affiliates and associates. However, our Board of Directors may repeal or modify this resolution at any time in the future, in which case the applicable provisions of this statute will become applicable to business combinations between us and interested stockholders. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that a holder of “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) has no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, our officers and our employees who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. 27 The Company has elected to implement a classified Board of Directors, require a two-thirds vote to remove a director and to implement other provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of the Company. On November 12, 2013, our Board of Directors elected to be subject to all of the provisions of Sections 3-803, 3-804 and 3-805 of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL (“Subtitle 8”). As a result of this election, without stockholder approval and regardless of any provision in our charter or bylaws, our Board caused the following provisions of Subtitle 8 relating to our Board and the calling of stockholder meetings to be implemented, and these provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of the Company that might be in our stockholders’ best interests: · Board Classification. As a result of the election under Subtitle 8, the Board is classified into three separate classes of directors. At each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company, the successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting will be elected to hold office for a term continuing until the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election and until their successors are elected and qualified. · Removal of Directors. As a result of the election to be subject to Section 3-804 of the MGCL, the removal of directors will require the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders generally in the election of directors. · Board Size. The election to be subject to Section 3-804 of the MGCL also provides that the Board has the exclusive right to set the number of directors on the Board. This election did not result in substantive change to the requirements already provided in the Company’s charter and bylaws. · Vacancies on the Board. As a result of the election to be subject to Section 3-804 of the MGCL, the Board has the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, to fill vacancies on the Board, and any director elected by the Board to fill a vacancy will hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. · Special Meetings Called at the Request of Stockholders. As a result of the election to be subject to Section 3-805 of the MGCL, special meetings of stockholders called at the request of stockholders may now be called by the Secretary of the Company only on the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting. Our Board of Directors has the power to cause us to issue additional shares of our stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. 28 In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate ourselves to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, each present or former director or officer who is made, or threatened to be made, a party to any proceeding because of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 