Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the market price of our common stock and our ability, among other things, to make distributions to our stockholders, which in turn could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Some statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are an early entrant employing a new and untested business model in a new industry with no proven track record, which makes our business difficult to evaluate. The large-scale single-family rental industry is relatively new in the United States. Until very recently, the single-family rental business consisted primarily of private and individual investors in local markets and was managed individually or by small, local property managers. We were formed on the assumption that a company can acquire and operate single-family properties on a large-scale basis and achieve attractive yields employing a disciplined approach to acquisitions and renovations, economies of scale in marketing and management and developing a brand-name presence. This is a new business model that has not been tested on a national scale. Our assumptions are unproven, and if they prove to be incorrect, then we may fail to provide the financial returns that investors hope or expect to receive. Our investment strategy involves purchasing a large number of residential properties and leasing them to suitable residents. We are unaware of any other public REIT that is currently attempting to implement this strategy on the scale that we intend to pursue. No peer companies exist with an established track record from which to predict whether our investment strategy can be implemented successfully over time. While past performance is not indicative of future results, it will be difficult to evaluate our potential future performance without the benefit of established track records from companies implementing a similar investment strategy. We may encounter unanticipated problems implementing our investment strategy, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions on our common stock and may cause our stock price to decline significantly. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our investment strategy or that we will be successful in achieving our objective of providing attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders over the long term. We believe the acquisition, operation and management of multifamily residential properties is the most comparable established business model to our business, but in contrast to multifamily operations, the geographic dispersion of single-family properties creates significantly greater operational and maintenance challenges and, potentially, significantly higher per-unit operating costs. In addition, because each home has unique features, appliances and building materials, we believe the renovations, maintenance, marketing and operational tasks are far more varied and demanding than in a typical multifamily setting. We cannot provide any assurance that operating a large portfolio of single-family rental properties can be executed in a cost-effective and profitable manner or that our business plan will succeed. We have a limited operating history and may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. was organized in June 2012 and has a limited operating history. More than half of the homes we owned as of December 31, 2012 had been acquired within the preceding six months and a substantial number of those were still in the process of stabilization. We define stabilization as the period of time during which properties are not generating revenue because we are gaining possession, conducting renovations or marketing and leasing such properties. There is no long-term historical financial data available for Silver Bay Property, our acquired properties or other companies in the single-family rental industry to assist investors in assessing our earnings potential or whether we can operate profitably. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including: · the availability of additional properties that meet our criteria and our ability to purchase such properties on favorable terms; · real estate appreciation or depreciation in our target markets; · our ability to contain renovation, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs for our properties; · our ability to maintain high occupancy rates and target rent levels; · general economic conditions in our target markets, such as changes in employment and household earnings and expenses; · costs that are beyond our control, including title litigation, litigation with residents or tenant organizations, legal compliance, real estate taxes, homeowners’ association fees and insurance; · judicial and regulatory developments affecting landlord-tenant relations that may affect or delay our ability to dispossess or evict occupants or increase rents; · judicial and regulatory developments affecting banks’ and other mortgage holders’ ability to foreclose on delinquent borrowers; 10 Table of Contents · reversal of population, employment or homeownership trends in target markets; and · competition from other investors entering the single-family rental market. Our Manager is still building its operational expertise and infrastructure, and it is dependent upon new employees and third-party service providers to manage and operate its properties. Our Manager has been building its operational expertise by hiring new employees and establishing relationships with third-party service providers. Most of these employees and relationships are relatively new to our Manager, and as we grow and expand into new markets, our Manager will need to hire and train additional employees and find additional third-party resources and will need to retain these employees and third-party resources. In addition, our Manager is establishing new infrastructure and processes related to residential management and leasing, brand development, tracking, accounting systems and billing and payment processing. Building operational expertise and establishing infrastructure are difficult, expensive and time-consuming tasks, and we can expect problems to arise despite the best efforts of our Manager and its affiliates. There is a significant risk that operational problems will have an adverse effect upon our financial performance, especially in newer markets. We are dependent on our investment in a single asset class, making our profitability and balance sheet more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the housing sector or other economic factors. We expect to concentrate our investments in single-family properties. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. A downturn or slowdown in the rental demand for single-family housing may have more pronounced effects on the cash available for distribution or on the value of our assets than if we had more fully diversified our investments. Virtually all of our revenue comes from our rental operations, which are subject to many risks, including decreasing rental rates, increased competition for residents, increased lease default rates and increased resident turnover. As a result of various factors, including competitive pricing pressure or adverse conditions in our target markets, a general economic downturn and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our target markets, we may be unable to realize our asking rents across the properties in our portfolio, which will negatively affect our ability to generate cash flow. In addition, rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases. We also compete for residents with numerous other housing alternatives. We anticipate that our properties will compete directly with multifamily properties as well as condominiums and other single-family homes which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. The ownership and management of such properties is diffuse and often highly localized, and some operators may have lower operating costs than we do. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our properties as well as on the rents we may charge. Our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected if a significant number of our residents were unable to meet their lease obligations. High unemployment and other adverse changes in the economic conditions in our target markets could result in substantial resident defaults. In the event of a resident default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and obtaining possession of the premises, may incur legal, maintenance and other costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing the property and may be unable to re-lease the property at the rental rate previously received. These events and others could reduce the amount of distributions available to our stockholders, reduce the value of our properties and cause the value of your investment to decline. We intend to continue to expand our scale of operations and make acquisitions even if the rental and housing markets are not as favorable as they have been in recent months, which could reduce our yield per share. Silver Bay Property and the Provident Entities benefited in the purchase of the properties in our Initial Portfolio from a confluence of factors and market conditions which have resulted in homes being available at prices that are below replacement cost and, we believe, below their value as rental properties, based on anticipated cash flows. We expect that in the future housing prices will stabilize and return to more normalized levels, and therefore future acquisitions may be more costly than the homes that comprised our Initial Portfolio. There are many factors that may cause a recovery in the housing market that would result in future acquisitions becoming more expensive and possibly less attractive than recent past and present opportunities, including: · improvements in the overall economy and job market; · reductions in the supply of residential properties compared to demand; · a resumption of consumer lending activity and greater availability of consumer credit; 11 Table of Contents · improvements in the pricing and terms of mortgage-backed securities; · the emergence of increased competition for single-family assets from private investors and entities with similar investment objectives to ours; and · tax or other government incentives that encourage homeownership. Although we believe there will be benefits to increasing our scale of operations, our Manager’s acquisition platform and property management operations represent a significant ongoing expense to us. These expenses include, among others, costs associated with establishing and maintaining fully staffed regional brokerage offices, inspections and due diligence, transaction costs, landlord-tenant and legal compliance, and renovating and marketing costs. In addition, we expect that recently acquired properties in the process of stabilization will be unproductive assets generating no revenue for up to six months after acquisition. We have not adopted and do not expect to adopt a policy of making future acquisitions only if they are accretive to existing yields and distributable cash. We will continue to invest significant resources developing our Manager’s acquisition and property management platforms and we plan to continue acquiring properties as long as we believe such properties offer an attractive total return opportunity. Accordingly, future acquisitions may have lower yield characteristics than our current portfolio and if such future acquisitions are funded through equity issuances, the yield and distributable cash per share will be reduced and the value of our common stock may decline. We may need additional capital or may seek to employ debt to expand our portfolio, and such financing may not be available. To date, all of our properties have been purchased for cash and we have no outstanding indebtedness. However, we may use debt to obtain additional capital or increase potential returns to our stockholders in the future. We may be unable to leverage our assets or obtain additional financing. We may also be limited or restricted in the amount of debt we may employ by the terms and provisions of any financing or other agreements that we may enter into in the future and such agreements may contain covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We have many competitors and may not become an industry leader. Recently, several institutional investors have begun acquiring single-family homes on a large scale. The entry into this market of large, well-capitalized institutional investors, including us, are relatively recent trends, which we expect to intensify in the near future. Several other REITs and other funds have recently deployed, or are expected to deploy in the near future, significant amounts of capital to these asset categories, and may have investment objectives that overlap and compete with ours. In acquiring our target assets, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private funds and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors may be larger and have greater financial, technical, leasing, marketing and other resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. At this time, neither we nor any other company has established a market-leading position, and even if we succeed in becoming an industry leader there can be no assurance that it will confer any long-term competitive advantage or positive financial results. Our dependence upon third parties for key services may harm our financial results or reputation if the third parties fail to perform. We have entered into agreements with third parties to provide some of the services required under the management agreement and the property management and acquisition services agreement, including acquisition services, property management, leasing, renovation and maintenance. For example, we currently use third-party property managers for approximately half of our current properties, and we also use third-party acquisition personnel in Tucson, AZ and Tampa, FL. Selecting, managing and supervising these third-party service providers require significant management resources and expertise. Poor performance by third-party service providers, especially those who interact with residents in our properties, will reflect poorly on us and could significantly damage our reputation among desirable residents. In the event of fraud or misconduct by a third-party property manager, we could also be exposed to material liability and be held responsible for damages, fines and/or penalties. If our Manager does not select, manage and supervise appropriate third parties for these services, our reputation and financial results may suffer. Notwithstanding our efforts to implement and enforce strong policies and practices regarding service providers, we may not successfully detect and prevent fraud, incompetence or theft by our third-party service providers. In addition, any delay in identifying a third-party service provider or removal or termination of existing third-party service providers would require us to seek new vendors or providers, which would create delays and adversely affect our operations. 12 Table of Contents Many factors affect the single-family residential rental market and if rents in our target markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with rising costs of operations, our income and distributable cash will decline. The success of our business model will depend, in part, on conditions in the single-family rental market in our target markets. Our asset acquisitions will be premised on assumptions about occupancy and rent levels, and if those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our cash flows and profitability will be reduced. Rental rates and occupancy levels have benefited in recent periods from macro trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate markets in particular, including: · a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance home purchases, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit; · weak economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates and made it more difficult for families to remain in their homes that were purchased prior to the housing market downturn; · declining real estate values that have challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment; and · the unprecedented level of vacant housing comprising the real estate owned, or REO, inventory held for sale by banks, government-sponsored entities and other mortgage lenders or guarantors. We do not expect these favorable trends to continue indefinitely. Eventually, a strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, coupled with government programs designed to keep home owners in their homes and/or other factors may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors like us increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase undervalued housing assets and convert them to productive uses, the supply of single-family rental properties will decrease and the competition for residents may intensify. A softening of the rental market in our target areas would reduce our rental income and profitability. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the number of available properties that meet our investment criteria. The U.S. government, through the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Administration and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has implemented a number of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the Home Affordable Modification Program, which seeks to provide relief to homeowners whose mortgages are in or may be subject to foreclosure, and the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows certain borrowers who are underwater on their mortgage but current on their mortgage payments to refinance their loans. Several states, including states in which our current target markets are located, have adopted or are considering similar legislation. These programs and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification or refinancing of mortgage loans or providing homeowners with additional relief from loan foreclosures. Such loan modifications and other measures are intended and designed to lead to fewer foreclosures, which will decrease the supply of properties that meet our investment criteria. The pace of residential foreclosures is unpredictable and subject to numerous factors. In recent periods there has been a backlog of foreclosures due to a combination of volume constraints and legal actions, including those brought by the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, and State Attorneys General against mortgage servicers alleging wrongful foreclosure practices. Financial institutions have also been subjected to regulatory restrictions and limitations on foreclosure activity by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Legal claims brought or threatened by the DOJ, HUD and 49 State Attorneys General against the five largest residential mortgage servicers in the country were settled in 2012. As part of this approximately $25 billion settlement, a portion of the settlement funds will be directed to homeowners seeking to avoid foreclosure through mortgage modifications, and servicers are required to adopt specified measures to reduce mortgage obligations in certain situations. It is expected that the settlement will help many homeowners avoid foreclosures that would otherwise have occurred in the near term, and with lower monthly payments and mortgage debts, for years to come. It is also foreseeable that other residential mortgage servicing companies that were not among the five included in the initial $25 billion settlement will agree to similar settlements that will further reduce the supply of houses in the process of foreclosure. In addition, numerous federal and state legislatures have considered, proposed or adopted legislation to constrain foreclosures, or may do so in the future. For example, in 2012, California enacted a law imposing new limitations on foreclosures while a request for a loan modification is pending. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which supervises and enforces federal consumer protection laws as they apply to banks, credit unions, and other financial companies, including mortgage servicers. It remains uncertain as to whether any of these measures will have a significant impact on foreclosure volumes or what the timing of that impact would be. If foreclosure volumes were to decline significantly, we would expect REO inventory levels to decline or to grow at a slower pace, which would make it more difficult to find target assets at attractive prices and 13 Table of Contents might constrain our growth or reduce our long-term profitability. Also, the number of families seeking rental housing might be reduced by such legislation, reducing rental housing demand in our target markets. Claims of deficiencies in the foreclosure process may result in rescission of our purchases at auction or reduce the supply of foreclosed properties available to us. Allegations of deficiencies in foreclosure practices could result in claims challenging the validity of some foreclosures that have occurred to date, potentially placing our claim of ownership to the properties at risk. Our title insurance policies may not provide adequate protection in such instances or such proceedings may result in a complete loss without compensation. Each state has its own laws governing the procedures to foreclose on mortgages and deeds of trust, and state laws generally require strict compliance with these laws in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosures. Recently, courts and administrative agencies have been more actively involved in enforcing state laws governing foreclosures, and in some circumstances have imposed new rules and requirements regarding foreclosures. Some courts have delayed or prohibited foreclosures based on alleged failures to comply with proper transfers of title, notice, identification of parties in interest, documentation and other legal requirements. Further, foreclosed owners and their legal representatives, including some prominent and well-financed legal firms, have brought litigation questioning the validity and finality of foreclosures that have already occurred. These developments may slow or reduce the supply of foreclosed houses available to us for purchase and may call into question the validity of our title to houses acquired at foreclosure, or result in rescission rights or other borrower remedies, which could result in a loss of a property purchased by us that may not be covered by title insurance, an increase in litigation costs incurred with respect to properties obtained through foreclosure, or delays in stabilizing and leasing such properties promptly after acquisition. Our underwriting criteria and evaluation of properties involves a number of assumptions that may prove inaccurate, which may cause us to overpay for our properties or incur significant costs to renovate and market a property. In determining whether a particular property meets our investment criteria, we make a number of assumptions, including assumptions related to estimated time of possession and estimated renovation costs and time frames, annual operating costs, market rental rates and potential rent amounts, time from purchase to leasing and resident default rates. These assumptions may prove inaccurate, causing us to pay too much for properties we acquire or to overvalue our properties or causing our properties not to perform as we expect, and adjustments to the assumptions we make in evaluating potential purchases may result in fewer properties qualifying under our investment criteria. Furthermore, the properties we acquire are likely to vary materially in terms of time to possession, renovation, quality and type of construction, location and hazards. Our success depends on our ability to estimate accurately the time and expense required to possess, renovate, repair, upgrade and rent properties and to keep them maintained in rentable condition. The recent market and regulatory environments relating to single-family residential properties have been changing rapidly, making future trends difficult to forecast. For example, an increasing number of homeowners now wait for an eviction notice or eviction proceedings to commence before vacating foreclosed premises, which significantly increases the period between the acquisition and leasing of a property. In recent months, approximately half of the properties we have acquired at auction have been occupied, requiring us to remove or evict the prior occupants before we begin our renovations. The accuracy of the assumptions we use in our underwriting criteria will affect our operating results. The types of properties on which our acquisition strategy focuses have an increased risk of damage due to vandalism, mold and infestation, which may require extensive renovation prior to renting. Our acquisition strategy predominately targets distressed single-family properties that often involve defaults by homeowners on their home loan obligations. For multiple reasons, distressed properties may be in worse physical condition than other similar properties. When a homeowner falls behind on a mortgage, the homeowner may cease to maintain the property in good condition, may vandalize it, or may abandon the property altogether. Vacant and neglected homes are subject to increased risks of vandalism, theft, mold, infestation, general deterioration, illegal occupation and other maintenance problems that may worsen without appropriate attention and remediation. We generally will not hire independent third-party home inspectors to inspect properties before purchase and will instead rely primarily on the acquisition employees of our Manager’s operating subsidiary to conduct detailed interior visual inspections when possible. Though we intend to inspect our portfolio properties periodically, we may not become aware of conditions such as water infiltration, mold or infestation until significant damage has been done to our property requiring extensive remediation and repairs as well as providing substitute housing for a resident. 14 Table of Contents Certain of our older properties may contain lead-based paint, which we may be required to remove or could expose us to liability, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. Approximately 30% of the properties we owned as of December 31, 2012 are over 30 years old, and those premises may contain lead-based paint. The existence of lead paint is especially a concern in residential units and can cause health problems, particularly for children. A structure built prior to 1978 may contain lead-based paint and may present a potential exposure to lead; however, structures built after 1978 are not likely to contain lead-based paint. Federal and state laws impose certain disclosure requirements and restrict and regulate renovation activities on housing built before 1978. Violation of these restrictions could result in fines or criminal liability, and we could be subject to liability arising from lawsuits alleging personal injury or related claims. Although we attempt to comply with all such regulations, we have not conducted tests on the properties in our Initial Portfolio to determine the presence of lead-based paint and we cannot guarantee that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint in our properties. A substantial portion of our properties are purchased at auction, where we generally are not able to conduct a thorough inspection before purchasing the properties, and we may not accurately assess the extent of renovations required. Over 70% of our properties owned as of December 31, 2012 were purchased at auction and approximately 120 properties were purchased in bulk sales. When we purchase properties at auction or in bulk sales, we generally do not have the opportunity to conduct interior inspections and may not be able to access a property to conduct more than the most cursory of exterior inspections. These inspection processes may fail to reveal major defects associated with properties we acquire, which may result in renovation and maintenance costs and time frames that exceed our estimates and negatively affect our financial results and earnings. The costs and time to secure possession and control of a newly acquired property may exceed our current assumptions, increasing the costs and delaying our receipt of revenue from the property. Upon acquiring a new property, we may have to evict occupants who are in unlawful possession before we can secure possession and control of the property. The holdover occupants may be the former owners or tenants of a property, or they may be squatters or others who are illegally in possession. Securing control and possession from these occupants can be both costly and time-consuming. If these costs and delays exceed our expectations in a large proportion of our newly acquired properties, our financial performance may suffer because of the increased expenses or the unexpected delays incurred in turning the properties into revenue-producing assets. We may not have control over timing and costs arising from renovation of properties, which may adversely affect our earnings and distributable cash. We expect that nearly all of our properties will require some level of renovation immediately upon their acquisition or in the future following expiration of a lease or otherwise. We may acquire properties that we plan to extensively renovate. We may also acquire properties that we expect to be in good condition only to discover unforeseen defects and problems that require extensive renovation and capital expenditures. In addition, we will be required to make ongoing capital improvements and replacements and may need to perform significant renovations from time to time to reposition properties in the rental market. Our homes have infrastructure and appliances of varying ages and conditions. Consequently, we expect that our Manager will routinely retain independent contractors and trade professionals to perform physical repair work and we will be exposed to all of the risks inherent in property renovation, including potential cost overruns, increases in labor and materials costs, delays by contractors in completing work, delays in the timing of receiving necessary work permits, certificates of occupancy and poor workmanship. Although we do not expect that renovation difficulties on any individual property will be significant to our overall results, if our assumptions regarding the costs or timing of renovation across our portfolio prove to be materially inaccurate, our earnings and distributable cash may be adversely affected. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities or restrictions related to properties that we acquire for which we may have limited or no recourse. Assets and entities that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, including our Initial Portfolio acquired in the Formation Transactions, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. Unknown or contingent liabilities might include liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to properties, unpaid real estate tax, utilities or homeowners’ association, or HOA, charges for which a subsequent owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired entities and tax liabilities. Purchases of single-family properties acquired at auction, in short sales, from lenders or in bulk purchases typically involve few or no representations or warranties with respect to the properties and may allow us limited or no recourse against the sellers. Such properties also often have unpaid tax, utility and HOA liabilities for which we may be obligated but fail to anticipate. As a result, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with acquired properties and entities may 15 Table of Contents exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, these properties may be subject to covenants, conditions or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such properties, including prohibitions on leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process and such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to operate such properties as we intend. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry that could reduce the rent we receive, decrease the value of our properties and adversely affect our financial condition. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends as well as the value of our properties. These events include: · adverse changes in national or local real estate, economic and demographic conditions; · vacancies or our inability to rent our homes on favorable terms or at favorable rental rates; · adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; · inability to collect rent from residents; · reduced demand for single-family home rentals and changes in the relative popularity of properties and neighborhoods; · increased supply of single-family homes and availability of financing; · increases in expenses, including insurance costs, labor costs, energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies to the extent that we are unable to pass on these increases to our residents; · the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or covenants regulating rental rates; and · changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including health, safety, environmental, rental property, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay dividends to you could be adversely affected. Short-term leases of residential property may expose us to the effects of declining market rents. We anticipate that substantially all of our leases will be of a duration of less than two years and will be one year in the majority of cases. Because these leases permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be affected by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Short-term leases may result in high turnover, which involves costs such as restoring the properties, marketing costs and lower occupancy levels. Because we have a very limited operating history, we cannot accurately predict our turnover rate or the associated costs we will incur. Our revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed, we may not be able to adapt our cost structure to offset declines in our revenue. Most of the expenses associated with our business, such as acquisition costs, renovation and maintenance costs, real estate taxes, HOA fees, personal and property taxes, insurance, utilities, personnel costs and benefits and other general corporate expenses are fixed and do not necessarily decrease with a reduction in revenue from our business. Our assets are also prone to depreciation and will require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditures. Our expenses and ongoing capital expenditures will also be affected by inflationary increases and certain of our cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation. By contrast, as described above, our rental income will be affected by many factors beyond our control such as the availability of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in our target markets. As a result, we may not be able to fully offset rising costs and capital spending by raising rents, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution. In addition, state and local regulations may require us to maintain properties that we own, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the value of the property or any potential benefit from renting the property. 16 Table of Contents Our portfolio consists of properties that are geographically concentrated and any adverse developments in local economic conditions, the demand for single-family rental homes in these markets or natural disasters may negatively affect our operating results. Our portfolio consists of properties that are geographically concentrated in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio and Texas. As such, we are susceptible to local economic conditions, other regulations, the supply of and demand for single-family rental properties and natural disasters in these areas. If there is a downturn in the local economies, an oversupply of or decrease in demand for single-family rental properties in these markets or natural disasters in these geographical areas, our business could be materially adversely affected to a greater extent than if we owned a real estate portfolio that was more geographically diversified. Many of our properties are located in markets that have experienced a significant decline in home prices and it may take longer for housing prices to recover in those markets. A significant number of our residential properties are part of HOAs and we and our residents are subject to the rules and regulations of such HOAs, which may be arbitrary or restrictive, and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation with such HOAs, which would be costly. A significant number of the properties in our portfolio are located within HOAs, which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. HOAs in which we own properties may have or enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market or lease our properties or require us to renovate or maintain such properties at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale, or the use of specific construction materials used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes, which if met or exceeded, would cause us to incur additional costs to resell the property and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas and we may have residents who violate HOA rules and for which we may be liable as the property owner. The boards of directors of the HOAs in which we own properties may not make important disclosures about the properties or may block our access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell our properties, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. We may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with HOA rules before purchasing a property and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such property at a loss, prevent us from renting such property or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such property, which would have an adverse effect on our returns on the property. We may be subject to losses that are uninsurable, not economically insurable or in excess of our insurance coverage. Our properties may be damaged by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, wind, hail, floods, landslides and fires. In addition, our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities and we will be exposed to personal liability for accidents which may occur on our properties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all damages or losses from these events, or it may not be economically prudent to purchase insurance for certain types of losses, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. As a result, we may incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters or events which result in damage or injury. We may not carry or may discontinue certain types of insurance coverage on some or all of our properties if the cost of premiums for such insurance in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Because we tend to concentrate ownership in target markets, if we own numerous properties in an area affected by a natural disaster or similar catastrophic event, it could damage or destroy a substantial portion of our properties, and expose us to liabilities to our affected residents to immediately repair or replace their leaseholds on non-economic terms. If we experience losses that are uninsured or exceed policy limits, we could incur significant uninsured costs or liabilities, lose the capital invested in the properties, and lose the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, our environmental or personal liability may result in losses substantially in excess of the value of the related property. New or existing laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties, including permit, license and zoning requirements, may adversely affect our ability to make future acquisitions or renovations, result in significant costs or delays and adversely affect our growth strategy. Our properties are subject to various covenants and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers or HOAs, may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. Existing regulatory policies may adversely affect the timing or cost of our future acquisitions or renovations, and additional regulations may increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our failure to obtain permits, licenses and zoning approvals on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to tenant relief laws that may negatively affect our rental income and profitability. Distressed properties that we purchase at auction are often occupied and may require us to evict the prior occupant of the premises. As landlord, we will also regularly be in the situation of having to evict residents who are not paying their rent or are otherwise in material violation of the terms of their leases. Eviction activities will impose legal and managerial expenses that will raise our costs. The eviction process is typically subject to legal barriers, mandatory “cure” policies and other sources of expense and delay. Additionally, state and local landlord-tenant laws may impose legal duties to assist tenants in relocating to new housing, or restrict the landlord’s ability to recover certain costs or charge tenants for damage. Because such laws vary by state and locality, our regional and local property managers will need to be familiar with and take all appropriate steps to comply with all applicable landlord-tenant laws, and we will need to incur supervisory and legal expenses to insure such compliance. To the extent that we do not comply with state or local laws, we may be subjected to civil litigation filed by individuals, class action claims or claims by state or local law enforcement. Class action, tenant rights and consumer demands and litigation may result in increased expenses and harm our financial results. There are numerous tenants’ rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country that operate in our target markets, and as we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues, and with the large settlements identified above and the increased market for single-family rentals arising from displaced homeownership, some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord- tenant issues. While we intend to conduct our business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take, or what remedies they may seek. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us, or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our business operations, and may impose on us significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Poor resident selection and defaults by renters may negatively affect our financial performance and reputation. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified residents. This will depend, in turn, upon our ability to screen applicants, identify good residents and avoid residents who may default. We will inevitably make mistakes in our selection of residents, and we may rent to residents whose default on our leases or failure to comply with the terms of the lease or HOA regulations negatively affect our financial performance, reputation and the quality and value of our properties. For example, residents may default on payment of rent, make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements, make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities, make use of our properties for illegal purposes, damage or make unauthorized structural changes to our properties which may not be fully covered by security deposits or insurance, refuse to leave the property when the lease is terminated, engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances, disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores, fail to comply with HOA regulations, sublet to less desirable individuals in violation of our leases, or permit unauthorized persons to live with them. Defaulting residents are often effectively judgment-proof. The process of evicting a defaulting resident from a family residence can be adversarial, protracted and costly. Furthermore, some residents facing eviction may damage or destroy the property. Damage to our properties may significantly delay re-leasing after eviction, necessitate expensive repairs or impair the rental income or value of the property, resulting in a lower than expected rate of return. In addition, we will incur turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties such as marketing and brokerage commissions and will not collect revenue while the property sits vacant. Although our Manager attempts to work with residents to prevent such damage or destruction, there can be no assurance that our Manager will be successful. Such residents cause us not to achieve our financial objectives for the properties in which they live, may subject us to liability, and may damage our reputation with our other residents and in the communities where we do business. Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our success depends upon our ability to acquire rental properties at attractive valuations, such that we can earn a satisfactory return on the investment primarily through rental income and secondarily through increases in the value of the properties. If we overpay for properties or if their value subsequently drops or fails to rise because of market factors, we will not achieve our financial objectives. We periodically review the value of our properties to determine whether their value, based on market factors, projected income and generally accepted accounting principles, has permanently decreased such that it is necessary or appropriate to take an impairment loss in the relevant accounting period. Such a loss would cause an immediate reduction of net income in the applicable accounting period and would be reflected in a decrease in our balance sheet assets. The reduction of net income from impairment losses could lead to a reduction in our dividends, both in the relevant accounting period and in future periods. Even if we do not 18 Table of Contents determine that it is necessary or appropriate to record an impairment loss, a reduction in the intrinsic value of a property would become manifest over time through reduced income from the property and would therefore affect our earnings and financial condition. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession or stagnation or decline in home values could impair our assets and harm our operations. The risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession. For example, the ability of residents to pay their rent typically depends on the income or assets of the residents. During an economic slowdown, unemployment rises and increasing numbers of residents have difficulty making payments on their obligations, including rent. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies or defaults could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Thus any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession, whether caused by global unrest, acts or threats of terrorism, breakdowns in the financial system or otherwise, could impair our assets or the performance of our assets and harm our operations. Title defects and eminent domain could lead to material losses on our investments in our target assets. Although we currently intend to acquire title insurance on the majority of our residential properties when it is available, we will also acquire a number of our homes on an “as is” basis at auctions, without the benefit of title insurance prior to closing. Increased scrutiny of title matters, particularly in the case of foreclosures, could lead to legal challenges with respect to the validity of the sale. In the absence of title insurance, the sale may be rescinded and we may be unable to recover our purchase price, resulting in a complete loss. Title insurance obtained subsequent to purchase offers little protection against discoverable defects because they are typically excluded from such policies. Although our Manager utilizes various policies, procedures and practices to assess the state of title prior to purchase, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will be completely effective, which could lead to a material if not complete loss on our investment in such properties. In addition, even if we are able to acquire title insurance on a property, the insurance may not cover all defects and/or the significant legal costs associated with obtaining clear title. Our title to a property, especially those acquired at auction, may be challenged for a variety of reasons including allegations of defects in the foreclosure process. Title insurance may not prove adequate in these instances. It is also possible that governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which our properties are built. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow us to recover only the fair value of the affected property. Our acquisition strategy is premised on the concept that this “fair value” will be substantially less than the real value of the property for a number of years, and we could effectively have no profit potential from properties acquired by the government through eminent domain. Several cities are also exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire mortgages to assist homeowners to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of single-family properties in our markets. We are currently involved in a variety of legal actions and administrative proceedings as a result of which we may incur significant costs. We are currently involved in a variety of legal actions and administrative proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. These matters include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of the property. While we intend to vigorously defend any non-meritorious claim or proceeding, no assurance can be given that we will not incur significant costs or be subject to material losses as a result. Increasing real estate taxes, HOA fees and insurance costs may negatively affect our financial results. As a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our properties is a significant component of our expenses. In addition, a significant portion of the properties in our portfolio are subject to HOAs, which have the power to increase monthly charges and make assessments for capital improvements and common area repairs. Real estate taxes, HOA fees and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases, which can be outside of our control. If the costs associated with real estate taxes, HOA fees and assessments or insurance should rise significantly and we are unable to raise rents to offset such increases, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business we acquire and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our prospective and current residents, our employees and third-party service providers in our branch offices and on our networks and website. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, 19 Table of Contents disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and competitive position. As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We may be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the first fiscal year beginning after our initial public offering. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the very early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may become subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, if we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after our initial public offering, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. In addition, to comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which requires significant resources, and our results may be adversely affected. Over 75% of the assets in our portfolio were purchased within the past 12 months, and we plan to continue our rapid acquisition strategy, which requires significant resources and attention from our Manager and may affect our financial performance. Our future operating results depend upon our ability to effectively manage this rapid growth, which is dependent, in part, upon the ability of our Manager to: · stabilize and manage a rapidly increasing number of properties and resident relationships while maintaining a high level of customer service and building and enhancing our brand; · identify and supervise an increasing number of suitable third parties and internal offices on which our Manager relies to provide certain services to our properties; · continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting procedures and systems; and · scale our technology and other infrastructure platforms to adequately service new properties. We cannot assure you that our Manager will be able to achieve these results or that we may otherwise be able to manage our growth effectively. Any failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 20 Table of Contents There are risks inherent in valuing large acquisitions, including the Formation Transactions, that may adversely affect our financial results. We determine the fair market value of properties we acquire as part of large portfolios, including the properties we acquired in the Formation Transactions, based on a number of estimates and assumptions. We did not obtain opinions of fair value from independent third party appraisers for the properties acquired through the Formation Transactions, nor do we typically obtain such appraisals for our bulk purchases. The estimates and assumptions we use when we make bulk purchases may prove incorrect or there may be unknown or unforeseen liabilities associated with the properties that could result in the fair market value of the properties being materially lower than our estimate. Additionally, if we suffer harm as a result of the sellers of large portfolios breaching any of the representations, warranties or covenants made by them in the documents governing the Formation Transactions, we may not be fully indemnified or have other recourse against them. Further, to the extent that we do have any claims at law or equity against them for such breaches, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or enforce a judgment in our favor. Therefore, any breaches of their representations, warranties or covenants could adversely affect the value of the properties we acquired in the Formation Transactions and our financial results. Our financial results during our ramp-up period may not be reflective of our earnings potential. Our near-term financial results as we ramp up and rapidly expand our portfolio may not be representative of our future potential. Until we are able to fully deploy the proceeds of our initial public offering, we will invest such funds in interest bearing accounts and short-term, interest bearing securities, with lower yield than we would expect to receive once these funds have been fully invested in our core single family residential properties. In addition, because a significant portion of our Initial Portfolio was acquired within the past 12 months and we expect to experience rapid growth going forward, we will have a greater percentage of our portfolio invested in assets in the process of stabilization than we would expect to have as a more mature operation. It will take time and significant cash resources to renovate, reposition and lease these properties in the process of stabilization. As a result, newly acquired properties will remain unproductive for some period and will reduce our overall financial performance. Our Manager has also incurred and will continue to incur additional reimbursable expenses to expand our operations, systems and infrastructure to support our growth. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Our Manager We are dependent upon our Manager, our Manager’s operating subsidiary and their key personnel, who provide services to us through the management agreement and the property management and acquisition services agreement, and we may not find suitable replacements if these agreements are terminated or these key personnel leave our Manager or our Manager’s operating subsidiary or otherwise become unavailable to us. We have no employees and no separate facilities. Instead, we are completely dependent upon our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary, which have significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our investment and operating policies and business strategies. Our success depends upon the efforts, experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the officers and key personnel of our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary. The departure of any of the officers or key personnel of our Manager or our Manager’s operating subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our performance. Our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary are not obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us. Some of the officers of our Manager or Manager’s operating subsidiary have significant responsibilities for the other business of Pine River and as a result, these individuals may not always be willing or able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. The initial terms of the management agreement with our Manager and the property management and acquisition services agreement with our Manager’s operating subsidiary only extend until December 19, 2015 and December 19, 2013, respectively. If these agreements are terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. We are dependent upon Pine River and its personnel, but cannot be assured of their continuing availability. Our Manager has entered into a shared services and facilities agreement with Pine River pursuant to which Pine River provides our Manager with a portion of our Manager’s personnel, services and resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement. Because we are not a party to the shared services and facilities agreement, we will not have any recourse against Pine River if it does not fulfill its obligations under the shared services and facilities agreement or if Pine River and our Manager choose to amend or terminate the shared services and facilities agreement. 21 Table of Contents Our Manager and certain of its affiliates may have interests that diverge from the interests of our stockholders. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our Manager, our Manager’s operating subsidiary, Pine River, Provident and each of their affiliates. Our Manager is a joint venture owned by Pine River and Provident. Each of Brian C. Taylor (a director), Thomas Siering (a director) and Timothy O’Brien (our General Counsel and Secretary) is a partner and owner of equity interests in Pine River. Irvin R. Kessler (a director) is the managing member and owner of equity interests in Provident. These individuals, as well as our other executive officers and the employees of our Manager and its affiliates on whom we rely, could make substantial profits as a result of investment opportunities allocated to entities other than us. As a result, these individuals could pursue transactions that may not be in our best interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. After the end of the exclusivity periods with our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary, our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary may manage other single-family real estate portfolios, which may result in conflicts of interest that could have an adverse effect on our business. The management agreement and the property management and acquisition services agreement each provide that our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary, as applicable, may only manage single-family real estate portfolios that are owned by us, our subsidiaries and any future joint venture in which we are an investor prior to December 19, 2015. After the expiration of this exclusivity period, however, our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary will be free to manage single-family real estate portfolios owned by others. Our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary have developed and will continue to develop expertise, systems and relationships with third parties with respect to the acquisition, management and leasing of single-family real estate in our target markets. If our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary or another entity affiliated with these individuals were to manage other residential assets in the future, they may leverage the expertise and skills garnered as our Manager or our Manager’s operating subsidiary to compete directly with us for acquisition opportunities, financing opportunities, residents and in other aspects of our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Neither our Manager nor our Manager’s operating subsidiary have any fiduciary duties to us and there is no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in favor of our stockholders. We believe that the success of our business requires a significantly higher level of hands-on day-to-day attention from our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary. If our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary were to manage other residential assets in the future, they would have less time available to devote to our business and may be unable to effectively allocate their time and other resources among multiple portfolios. Accordingly, the quality of services provided to us by our Manager or our Manager’s operating subsidiary could decline, which could adversely impact all aspects of our business, including our growth prospects, resident retention, occupancy and/or our results of operations. The management agreement with our Manager and the property management and acquisition services agreement with our Manager’s operating subsidiary were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. The management agreement with our Manager and the property management and acquisition services agreement with our Manager’s operating subsidiary were negotiated between related parties, and their terms, including fees payable to our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements and similar agreements may not solely reflect your best interest and may be overly favorable to the other party to such agreements including in terms of the substantial compensation to be paid to these parties under these agreements. Further, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement or the property management and acquisition services agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with our Manager, our Manager’s operating subsidiary, Pine River and Provident. Our Manager may assign its obligations under the management agreement to its affiliates, who may not have the same expertise or provide the same level of service as our Manager. Under the management agreement, our Manager may subcontract and assign its responsibilities under the agreement to any of its affiliates, or it may assign the management agreement to any of its affiliates without the approval of our independent directors. Although our Manager has informed us that it has no current intention to effect such an assignment, if there is such an assignment or transfer, the assignee may not have comparable operational expertise, have sufficient personnel, or manage our company as well as our Manager. 22 Table of Contents Under our management agreement, our Manager has a contractually defined duty to us rather than a fiduciary duty, which may cause our Manager to devote fewer resources to managing us than if it had a statutory duty. Under the management agreement, our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us which limits our Manager’s obligations to us to those specifically set forth in the management agreement. The ability of our Manager (or its personnel) and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our Manager spends managing us. In addition, unlike for directors, there is no statutory standard of conduct under the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, for officers of a Maryland corporation. Instead, officers of a Maryland corporation, including officers who are employees of our Manager, are subject to general agency principals, including the exercise of reasonable care and skill in the performance of their responsibilities, as well as the duties of loyalty, good faith and candid disclosure. Our Manager and its employees and members have a conflict of interest because the advisory management fee is based on our fully diluted market capitalization, not our financial performance, and because our Manager passes through most of its costs and expenses to us regardless of performance or efficiency. Our Manager is entitled to receive an advisory management fee that is based on the market capitalization of our common stock at the end of each quarter, regardless of our financial performance. Accordingly, significant advisory management fees will be payable to our Manager even if we experience losses. The advisory management fee structure gives our Manager the incentive to maximize market capitalization by the issuance of new common stock and the expansion of our scale of operations, regardless of the effect of this action on existing stockholders. In other words, the advisory management fee structure rewards our Manager primarily based on the equity value of our company, and not based on our returns to stockholders. Our advisory management fee structure rewards our Manager for issuances of common stock in the future, even if the net proceeds of such offerings cannot be invested in single-family properties with attractive yield characteristics. Any such offering would dilute our earnings and reduce distributions to our then-existing stockholders, but would provide economic benefits to our Manager. In addition, our Manager has an economic incentive to fund future growth through the issuance of equity capital as opposed to employing debt. Although the use of debt would be expected to increase returns on equity, which might make our stock price rise and, consequently, increase our market capitalization, debt financing would not be expected to have the same direct and immediate impact on advisory management fees as equity financing. In addition to the risk that our Manager may have financial incentives to take actions that are contrary to the interests of our stockholders, there is a risk that our advisory management fee structure does not provide adequate incentives to ensure that our Manager will devote its time and efforts to contain costs and maximize distributable cash. Because market capitalization can be increased through additional sales of common stock at reduced prices that provide new investors with an appropriate yield, there is a significant risk that our Manager could receive higher levels of compensation despite a failure to maximize distributable cash or achieve an attractive yield for our investors. Pursuant to the management agreement we must pay all costs and expenses of our Manager incurred in providing services to us except for certain expressly defined employee costs. Pursuant to the property management and acquisition services agreement, we must pay all costs and expenses incurred on our behalf in the operation of our Manager’s operating subsidiary, including all personnel costs. The right of our Manager and our Manager’s operating subsidiary to such reimbursement reduces their incentive to negotiate favorable contracts with third parties and minimize costs and expenses in operating our business, which could negatively affect our financial results. Our management agreement requires us to pay our Manager a substantial fee in the event of a termination of the management agreement, which may adversely affect our inclination to end our relationship with our Manager. Termination of the management agreement with our Manager without cause is difficult and costly. The term “cause” is limited to certain specifically described circumstances. The management agreement provides that, in the absence of cause, we may only terminate it upon the vote of at least two-thirds of all of our independent directors and after giving 180 days’ notice and providing our Manager with an opportunity to remedy any unsatisfactory performance. Additionally, upon a termination by us without cause (or upon a termination by our Manager due to our material breach), the management agreement requires us to pay our Manager a termination payment equal to 4.5% of the daily average of our fully diluted market capitalization in the quarter preceding such termination. This provision increases the effective cost to us of terminating our relationship with our Manager, even if we believe that our Manager’s performance is not satisfactory. Our Manager is only contractually committed to serve us until December 19, 2015. Thereafter, the management agreement is automatically renewed on an annual basis; provided, however, that our Manager may terminate the management agreement annually upon 180 days’ prior notice. If the management agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. 23 Table of Contents The liability of our Manager, Pine River and Provident are limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its affiliates and advisers, including Pine River and Provident, against certain liabilities. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which our Manager, Pine River and Provident would not be liable. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager and its officers, stockholders, members, managers, personnel and directors, any person controlling or controlled by our Manager and any person providing sub-advisory services to our Manager (which include Pine River and Provident) will not be liable to us, any of our subsidiaries, any of our directors, stockholders or partners or any subsidiary’s stockholders, members or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with or pursuant to the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting reckless disregard of our Manager’s duties under the management agreement that have a material adverse effect on us, bad faith, fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence, as determined by a final non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction. We have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its affiliates, including Pine River and Provident, with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts or omissions of such indemnified parties not constituting reckless disregard of our Manager’ duties under the management agreement that have a material adverse effect on us, bad faith, fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. As a result, if we experience poor performance or losses, our Manager would not be liable. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines and we do not expect the board to review or approve each acquisition decision made by our Manager. Our board of directors periodically reviews and updates our investment guidelines and also reviews our portfolio of residential real estate and short-term investments, but it does not review or approve specific property acquisitions. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of the investment guidelines set by our board of directors in determining our acquisition strategies, which could result in net returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in material losses. Our board of directors may change any of our strategy or investment guidelines, financing strategy or debt policies without stockholder consent. Our board of directors may change any of our strategies, policies or procedures with respect to property acquisitions and divestitures, asset allocation, growth, operations, indebtedness, financing and distributions at any time without the consent of stockholders, which could result in our acquiring properties that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of single-family residential real estate investments described in this Annual Report. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, risk profile, results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Sales of common stock in the future may have adverse effects on our share price. Subject to applicable law, our board of directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to issue additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock (or securities which are convertible or exchangeable for common stock or preferred stock) on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the effect, if any, of the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. We may expand the scale of our operations and may utilize the proceeds of future equity offerings to accomplish that strategy. To the extent the proceeds of any future equity offering are invested in residential assets that have less favorable yield characteristics than our then existing portfolio, our stockholders will suffer dilution in their yield and distributable cash per share. As of December 31, 2012, Two Harbors, former members of the Provident Entities, or the Prior Provident Investors, and certain of their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 64% of the company. Shares distributed or issued to Two Harbors stockholders or Prior Provident Investors are subject to a lock-up period expiring March 13, 2013, except for shares distributed or issued to our directors and officers, which will be subject to a lock-up expiring June 11, 2013 and shares distributed or issued to Irvin R. Kessler or any partners of Pine River, which will be subject to a lock up expiring December 13, 2013, subject to certain exceptions. Following such expirations, these shares will be freely transferable without restriction. The market price of our common stock may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by certain of our stockholders lapse. Pursuant to certain registration rights agreements, we intend to file registration statements registering the distribution by Two Harbors and the resale by Prior Provident Investors of common stock issued in connection with the Formation Transactions. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. 24 Table of Contents The trading volume and market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially in the future. We cannot assure stockholders that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price or increase the volatility of our common stock include: · our actual or projected operating results, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity or changes in business strategy or prospects; · actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our Manager, our Manager’s operating subsidiary or their affiliates and individuals, including our executives; · equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; · actual or anticipated accounting problems; · publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions to or departures of our Manager’s or our Manager’s operating subsidiary’s key personnel; · speculation in the press or investment community; · our failure to meet, or the lowering of, our earnings estimates or those of any securities analysts; · increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest, or to demand a higher distribution yield for our common stock, if we have begun to make distributions to our stockholders, and which would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, if any; · failure to maintain our REIT qualification; · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market generally; and · general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay distributions in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year in order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through quarterly cash distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders at any time or that the level of any distributions will achieve any specific market yield or will increase or be maintained over time. Any failure to achieve expected distributions could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may employ debt in the future which could expose us to additional risks, may impair our ability to pay dividends and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we incur indebtedness in the future to fund our growth or operations, it is likely that the instruments governing such indebtedness will contain covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We may incur debt that is secured by all or a portion of the residences in our portfolio. We will bear the costs and fees associated with any such incurrence and ongoing interest expense that will reduce the amount of funds available to common stockholders. Because our decision to issue debt will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future incurrence and any such incurrence could reduce the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently qualify as an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, preventing our stockholders from realizing a potential premium over the market price of our stock in a proposed acquisition. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock, provided that our board of directors did not approve in advance the transaction by which the stockholders otherwise would have become an interested stockholder) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting capital stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting capital stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person), and between us and Pine River, Provident, Two Harbors, or any of their respective affiliates, without the need for additional board approval. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, our officers and our personnel who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act (which we have) and at least three independent directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. 26 Table of Contents Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series or class of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal (and applicable state and local) income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income and would be taxable to our stockholders under the rules generally applicable to corporate distributions. The corporate tax liability arising from this inability to deduct dividends paid could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. The rule disqualifying us from taxation as a REIT following a loss of REIT status would also apply to us if Two Harbors fails to qualify as a REIT, and we are treated as a successor to Two Harbors for federal income tax purposes. Dividends payable by REITs do not generally qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers is at a reduced rate of 15% or 20%, depending on the recipient’s income. Dividends paid by REITs to individuals and other non-corporate stockholders are not generally eligible for the reduced rate. This may cause investors to view REITs investments to be less attractive than non-REIT investments, which in turn may adversely affect the value of stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our economic performance. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to comply with REIT requirements. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount required under the Code. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. Compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Furthermore, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. The requirement to distribute most of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be used to make future acquisitions or capital expenditures or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could adversely affect our economic performance. If the initial tax basis that we established for our assets is challenged by the IRS, we may have to distribute additional amounts in order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. We established our initial tax basis in the assets received in the Formation Transactions in part by reference to the trading price of our common stock. The IRS could assert that our initial tax basis is less than the amount determined by us (or is a carryover basis). If the IRS were successful in sustaining such an assertion, this would result in decreased depreciation deductions and increased gain on any asset dispositions, and thus increased taxable income, as compared to the amounts we had originally calculated and reported. This could result in our being required to distribute additional amounts in order to maintain our REIT status and avoid corporate taxes and also could result in our owing interest and penalties. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take 27 Table of Contents the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter provides that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock. Our board may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our charter key off of the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise tax or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more of the relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of “dealer property,” we may hold some of our assets or conduct activities through subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates (a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or TRS). In addition, if we lend money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, the Code imposes a 100% tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We will structure our transaction with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm’s-length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% tax. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than a TRS), and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case our stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder, but subject to a limitation on the amount of cash that may be distributed. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, whether received as cash or shares of our common stock, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell 28 Table of Contents shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Under a previously applicable Revenue Procedure, 90% of taxable cash/stock dividends of a REIT could be paid in stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and stock. Moreover, various aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met. The REIT rules relating to prohibited transactions could affect our disposition of assets and adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, we may choose to transfer or dispose of some of the properties in our portfolios. A REIT’s net income from “prohibited transactions” is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, or “dealer property.” We intend to conduct our activities so as not to generate prohibited transaction income. However, the avoidance of this tax on prohibited transactions could cause us to undertake less substantial sales of property than we would otherwise undertake in order to maximize our profits. In addition, we may have to sell numerous properties to a single or a few purchasers, which could cause us to be less profitable than would be the case if we sold properties on a property-by-property basis. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership is organized and operates in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership and not an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of the partners is allocated its share of the Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, could cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for distribution to its partners, including us. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular: · part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominantly held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the REIT ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income; · part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt investor with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the investor incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; and · part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from federal income taxation under the Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code and a violation of these provisions could jeopardize our REIT status. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we may have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. 29 Table of Contents New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules relating to REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in frequent statutory changes and revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could adversely affect us or cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 