Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the market price of our common stock and our ability, among other things, to make distributions to our stockholders, which in turn could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Some statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.10Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are employing a new and untested business model in a new industry with no proven track record, which makes our business difficult to evaluate. The large-scale single-family rental industry is relatively new in the United States. Until 2012, the single-family rental business consisted primarily of private and individual investors in local markets and was managed individually or by small, local property managers. We were formed on the assumption that a company can acquire and operate single-family properties on a large-scale basis and achieve attractive yields by employing a disciplined approach to acquisitions and renovations, economies of scale in marketing and management, and developing a brand-name presence. Our assumptions are unproven, and if they prove to be incorrect, then we may fail to provide the financial returns that investors hope or expect to receive. No peer companies exist with an established track record from which to predict whether our investment strategy can be implemented successfully over time. While past performance is not indicative of future results, it will be difficult to evaluate our potential future performance without the benefit of established track records from companies implementing a similar investment strategy.Our investment strategy involves purchasing a large number of residential properties and leasing them to suitable residents. We may encounter unanticipated problems implementing our investment strategy, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions on our common stock and may cause our stock price to decline significantly. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our investment strategy or that we will be successful in achieving our objective of providing attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders over the long term. We believe the acquisition, operation and management of multifamily residential properties is the most comparable established business model to our business, but in contrast to multifamily operations, the geographic dispersion of single-family properties creates significantly greater operational and maintenance challenges and, potentially, significantly higher per-unit operating costs. For example, although we intend to inspect our portfolio properties periodically, the geographical dispersion of our assets means we will not inspect our assets as frequently as may occur in the multifamily industry, meaning we may not become aware of conditions such as water infiltration, mold, or infestation until significant damage has been done to a property that may require extensive remediation and repairs and the provision of substitute housing for a resident. In addition, because each home has unique features, appliances and building materials, we believe the renovations, maintenance, marketing and operational tasks are far more varied and demanding than in a typical multifamily setting. We cannot provide any assurance that operating a large portfolio of single-family rental properties can be executed in a cost-effective and profitable manner or that our business plan will succeed. We have a limited operating history and may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. was organized in June 2012 and has a limited operating history. There is no long-term historical financial data available for us, our acquired properties, or other companies in the single-family rental industry to assist investors in assessing our earnings potential or whether we can operate profitably. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including: •the availability of additional properties that meet our criteria and our ability to purchase such properties on favorable terms; •real estate appreciation or depreciation in our target markets; •our ability to contain renovation, maintenance, marketing, and other operating costs for our properties; •our ability to maintain high occupancy rates and target rent levels; •general economic conditions in our target markets, such as changes in employment and household earnings and expenses; •costs that are beyond our control, including title litigation, litigation with residents or tenant organizations, legal compliance, real estate taxes, homeowners’ association fees, and insurance; 11Table of Contents•judicial and regulatory developments affecting landlord-tenant relations that may affect or delay our ability to dispossess or evict occupants or increase rents; •judicial and regulatory developments affecting banks’ and other mortgage holders’ ability to foreclose on delinquent borrowers; •reversal of population, employment, or homeownership trends in target markets; •interest rate levels and volatility, which may affect the accessibility of short-and long-term financing on desirable terms; and •competition from other investors entering the single-family rental market. We are still building our operational expertise and systems. We continue to build our operational expertise and to establish our platform and processes related to residential management, including leasing, brand development, tracking, accounting systems, and billing and payment processing. Building operational expertise and establishing a platform are difficult, expensive, and time-consuming tasks, and we can expect problems to arise despite our best efforts. There is a significant risk that operational problems will have an adverse effect upon our financial performance, especially in newer markets. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to hire and retain skilled managerial, investment, financial, and operational personnel. The implementation of our business plan requires that we employ qualified personnel. Competition for skilled managerial, investment, financial, and operational personnel is intense. Several large real estate investors have entered the single-family rental business and we face increased challenges in hiring and retaining personnel. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel as required, our growth and operating results could be adversely affected.We are dependent on our executive officers and dedicated personnel, and the departure of any of our key personnel could materially and adversely affect us. We rely on a small number of persons to carry out our business and investment strategies. Any of our senior management may cease to provide services to us at any time. The loss of the services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. As we expand, we may need to attract and retain qualified additional senior management but may not be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. We are dependent on our investment in a single asset class, which exposes us to downturns in the single-family properties sector. We have concentrated our investments in single-family properties and expect to continue to do so. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. A downturn or slowdown in the rental demand for single-family housing may have more pronounced effects on the cash available for distribution or on the value of our assets than if we had more fully diversified our investments. There are seasonal fluctuations in rental demand with demand higher in the spring and summer than in the fall and winter. Such seasonal fluctuations may impact our operating results. We face significant competition in the leasing market for quality residents, which may limit our ability to rent our single-family homes on favorable terms or at all. We depend on rental income from residents for substantially all of our revenues. As a result, our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified residents for our properties. We face competition for residents from other lessors of single-family properties, apartment buildings and condominium units. The continuing development of apartment buildings and condominium units in many of our target markets increases the supply of housing and exacerbates competition for residents. Many of these competitors may successfully attract residents with better incentives and amenities, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain quality residents and lease our single-family properties on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, some competing housing options may qualify for government subsidies that may make such options more affordable and therefore more attractive than our properties. 12Table of ContentsIf rents and occupancy levels in our markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with rising costs of operations, our income and distributable cash will decline.The success of our business model depends, in part, on conditions in the single-family rental market in our markets. Our asset acquisitions are premised on assumptions about occupancy and rent levels, and if those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our cash flows and profitability will be reduced. Rental rates and occupancy levels have benefited in recent periods from macro trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate markets in particular, including:•a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance home purchases, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit;•weak economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates and made it more difficult for families to remain in their homes that were purchased prior to the housing market downturn;•declining real estate values that have challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment; and•the unprecedented level of vacant housing comprising the real estate owned ("REO") inventory held for sale by banks, government-sponsored entities, and other mortgage lenders or guarantors.We do not expect these favorable trends to continue indefinitely and some, including each trend specified in the preceding paragraph, have begun to reverse. Eventually, a strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, coupled with government programs designed to keep home owners in their homes or other factors, may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors like us increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase undervalued housing assets and convert them to productive uses, the supply of single-family rental properties available for purchase will decrease and the competition for residents may intensify. A softening of the rental market in our target areas would reduce our rental income and profitability.Our revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed, we may not be able to adapt our cost structure to offset declines in our revenue.Many of the expenses associated with our business, such as acquisition costs, renovation and maintenance costs, real estate taxes, homeowners' association ("HOA") fees, personal and property taxes, insurance, utilities, personnel costs and benefits, and other general corporate expenses are fixed and do not necessarily decrease with a reduction in revenue from our business. Our assets are also prone to depreciation and will require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditures. Our expenses and ongoing capital expenditures will also be affected by inflationary increases and certain of our cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation. By contrast, as described above, our rental income will be affected by many factors beyond our control such as the availability of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in our target markets. In addition, state and local regulations may require us to maintain properties that we own, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the value of the property or any potential benefit from renting the property. As a result, we may not be able to fully offset rising costs and capital spending by raising rents, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution.Poor resident selection and defaults by renters may negatively affect our financial performance and reputation.Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified residents. This will depend, in turn, upon our ability to screen applicants, identify qualified residents, and avoid residents who may default. We may not successfully screen applicants, and as a result, we may rent to residents who default on our leases or fail to comply with the terms of the lease or HOA regulations, which may negatively affect our financial performance, reputation, and the quality and value of our properties. For example, residents may default on payment of rent, make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements, make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities, make use of our properties for illegal purposes, damage or make unauthorized structural changes to our properties which may not be fully covered by security deposits or insurance, refuse to leave the property when the lease is terminated, engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances, disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores, fail to comply with HOA regulations, sublet to less desirable individuals in violation of our leases, or permit unauthorized persons to live with them.In the event of a resident default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and obtaining possession of the premises and incur legal, maintenance, and other costs in protecting our investment. In addition, 13Table of Contentswe will incur turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties such as marketing and brokerage commissions, will not collect revenue while the property sits vacant, and may be unable to re-lease the property at the rental rate previously received.Short-term leases of residential property may expose us to the effects of declining market rents.Substantially all of our leases are of a duration of less than two years and are one year in the majority of cases. Because these leases permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be affected by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Short-term leases may result in high turnover, which involves costs such as restoring the properties, marketing costs, and lower occupancy levels. Because we have a limited operating history, we cannot accurately predict our turnover rate or the associated costs we will incur. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our leases will be renewed on equal or better terms or at all. If our residents do not renew their leases or abandon their leases during the lease term, we may experience lower than expected occupancy rates and some homes may remain vacant for extended periods of time. Extended vacancy terms may apply downward pressure to rental rates as we may accept rental rates below our targets in order to incentivize residents to choose our homes or prevent the value of our homes from becoming impaired as a result of extended vacancy periods. If either of our occupancy rates or rental rates decreases, our ability to generate positive cash flows may be negatively affected.We face significant competition for acquisitions of our target properties, which may limit our strategic opportunities and increase the cost to acquire those properties.We face significant competition for attractive acquisition opportunities in our target markets from other large real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources and a lower cost of capital than we do. Several REITs and other funds have and continue to deploy, and others may deploy in the near future, significant amounts of capital to purchase single-family homes and may have investment objectives that overlap and compete with ours, including in our target markets. This activity has adversely impacted our level of purchases in certain of our target markets. If our business model or a similar model proves to be successful, we can expect competition to intensify significantly. As a result, the purchase price of potential acquisition properties may be significantly elevated, or we may be unable to acquire properties on desirable terms or at all. We intend to continue to expand our scale of operations and make acquisitions even if the rental and housing markets are not as favorable as they have been in recent months, which could reduce our yield per share. Our long-term growth depends on the availability of acquisition opportunities in our target markets at attractive prices. We believe various factors and market conditions have made homes available for purchase at prices that are below replacement cost. Housing prices have begun to increase, and we expect that in the future they will continue to stabilize and return to more normalized levels, and therefore future acquisitions may be more costly. There are many factors that may cause a recovery in the housing market that would result in future acquisitions becoming more expensive and possibly less attractive than past and present opportunities, including:•improvements in the overall economy and job market; •reductions in the supply of residential properties compared to demand; •a resumption of consumer lending activity and greater availability of consumer credit;•improvements in the pricing and terms of mortgage-backed securities; •the emergence of increased competition for single-family assets from private investors and entities with similar investment objectives to ours; and •tax or other government incentives that encourage homeownership. Although we believe there will be benefits to increasing our scale of operations, our acquisition platform and property management operations represent a significant ongoing expense to us. These expenses include, among others, costs associated with establishing and maintaining fully staffed regional brokerage offices, inspections and due diligence, transaction costs, landlord-tenant and legal compliance, and renovating and marketing costs. In addition, we expect that recently acquired properties in the process of stabilization will be unproductive assets generating no revenue for up to six months after acquisition. 14Table of ContentsWe have not adopted and do not expect to adopt a policy of making future acquisitions only if they are accretive to existing yields and distributable cash. We will continue to invest significant resources developing our property management platform and we plan to continue acquiring properties as long as we believe such properties offer an attractive total return opportunity through cash flow generation and asset appreciation. Accordingly, future acquisitions may have lower yield characteristics than our current portfolio and if such future acquisitions are funded through equity issuances, the yield and distributable cash per share will be reduced and the value of our common stock may decline.We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which requires significant resources, and failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business and our financial results may be adversely affected.We plan to continue to grow our own property portfolio and refine our operations. Our future operating results depend upon our ability to effectively manage this growth, which is dependent, in part, upon our ability to:•stabilize and manage an increasing number of properties and resident relationships while maintaining a high level of customer service and building and enhancing our brand;•identify and supervise suitable third parties and employees to provide services to our properties;•continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting procedures and systems; and•scale our technology and other infrastructure platforms to adequately service new properties.We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve these results or that we may otherwise be able to manage our growth effectively. Any failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.Acquiring properties during periods when the single-family home sector is experiencing substantial inflows of capital and intense competition may result in inflated purchase prices and increase the likelihood that our properties will not appreciate in value and may, instead, decrease in value.The allocation of substantial amounts of capital for investment in the single-family home sector and significant competition for income producing real estate may inflate the purchase prices for such assets. To the extent we purchased, or in the future purchase, real estate in such an environment, it is possible that the value of our properties may not appreciate and may, instead, decrease in value, perhaps significantly, below the amount we paid for such properties. In addition to macroeconomic and local economic factors, technical factors, such as a decrease in the amount of capital allocated to the single-family home sector and the number of investors participating in the sector, could cause the value of our properties to decline.We will need additional capital or debt financing to expand our portfolio and such financing may not be available. The acquisition of single-family properties on a large scale requires significant capital. To date, our properties have been purchased and renovated with a mix of cash and debt financing under our revolving credit facility and securitization loan. We may be unable to leverage our assets or obtain additional financing to the extent desired. We may also choose to fund our growth by issuing additional equity, which may be dilutive to our stockholders. Our access to capital depends, in part, on: •general business conditions; •financial market conditions; •the market’s perception of our business prospects and growth potential; •our current debt levels; and•our current and expected earnings, cash flow and distributions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. If we do not have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility or future financing agreements, or if other sources of financing (such as equity offerings) are not available to us, we may be required to cease future acquisitions of single-family 15Table of Contentsproperties, or dispose of certain properties in our portfolio at inopportune times, in order to meet liquidity and other requirements.Our revolving credit facility, securitization loan and any other debt we may incur in the future could expose us to additional risks, adversely affect our operating results, require us to sell properties, and adversely affect our ability to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Our financing strategy contemplates the use of secured or unsecured debt, including our revolving credit facility and securitization loan, to finance long-term growth. Our governing documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur. As a result, we may incur substantial debt in the future. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: •our cash flows from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; •our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •we will be subject to restrictive covenants that require us to satisfy and remain in compliance with certain financial requirements, that impose limitations on the type or extent of activities we conduct, or that restrict the amount of additional debt we may employ; •we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities, or other purposes; and •the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our revolving credit facility, securitization loan and other current and future debt obligations, as well as satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, we may need to refinance our debt or raise additional equity. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancing, increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flows and, consequently, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, our revolving credit facility and securitization loan accrue interest at a varying rate based on LIBOR. To the extent this interest rate increases, the cost of our borrowings will increase as well. To the extent we are required to raise additional equity to satisfy such debt, existing stockholders would see their interests diluted. If we are unable to refinance our debt or raise additional equity on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of substantial numbers of properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses.Our current revolving credit facility and securitization loan requires us to comply with various financial tests, including those relating to total liquidity and net worth. Future debt agreements we may enter into may have similar or additional provisions. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these requirements or are unable to meet repayment obligations relating to our current and any future debt, we will risk losing some or all of our properties that may be pledged to secure our obligations to foreclosure or we may be forced to sell properties at a loss. In addition, our current revolving credit facility and securitization loan documents contain, and we expect future debt agreements will contain, events of default, including payment defaults, covenant defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, bankruptcy and insolvency, judgments, change of control and cross-default with certain other indebtedness and other events of default customary for these types of agreements. Because credit agreements typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under our other agreements to also declare a default. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In connection with our revolving credit facility and securitization loan, we have obtained interest rate caps, and subject to complying with the requirements for REIT qualification, we may obtain in the future one or more additional forms of interest rate protection—in the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements—to hedge against the possible negative effects of interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately relieve the adverse effects of interest rate increases or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations thereunder. In addition, we may be subject to risks of default by hedging counterparties. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments 16Table of Contentsat times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our investments in order to meet our debt service obligations. Our dependence upon third parties for key services may harm our operating results or reputation if the third parties fail to perform. We rely on local, third-party vendors and service providers, including third-party house renovation professionals, maintenance providers, leasing agents, and property management companies in situations where it is cost-effective to do so or if our internal staff is unable to perform these functions. For example, we currently use third-party property managers for approximately 20% of our current properties. We do not have exclusive or long-term contractual relationships with any of these third-party providers, and we can provide no assurance that we will have uninterrupted or unlimited access to their services. Furthermore, selecting, managing, and supervising these third-party service providers requires significant management resources and expertise. Poor performance by third-party service providers, especially those who interact with residents in our properties, will reflect poorly on us and could significantly damage our reputation among desirable residents. If we do not select, manage, and supervise appropriate third parties for these services, our brand and reputation and operating results may suffer. Moreover, notwithstanding our efforts to implement and enforce strong policies and practices regarding service providers, we may not successfully detect and prevent fraud, incompetence, or theft by our third-party service providers, which could expose us to material liability or responsibility for associated damages, fines, or penalties. In addition, any delay in identifying a third-party service provider or removal or termination of existing third-party service providers would require us to seek new vendors or providers, which would create delays and adversely affect our operating results. Claims of deficiencies in the foreclosure process may result in rescission of our purchases at auction or reduce the supply of foreclosed properties available to us.Allegations of deficiencies in foreclosure practices could result in claims challenging the validity of some foreclosures that have occurred to date, potentially placing our claim of ownership to the properties at risk. Our title insurance policies may not provide adequate protection in such instances or such proceedings may result in a complete loss without compensation.Each state has its own laws governing the procedures to foreclose on mortgages and deeds of trust, and state laws generally require strict compliance with these laws in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosures. Recently, courts and administrative agencies have been more actively involved in enforcing state laws governing foreclosures, and in some circumstances have imposed new rules and requirements regarding foreclosures. Some courts have delayed or prohibited foreclosures based on alleged failures to comply with proper transfers of title, notice, identification of parties in interest, documentation, and other legal requirements. The pace of residential foreclosures is unpredictable and subject to numerous factors. In recent periods there has been a backlog of foreclosures due to a combination of volume constraints and legal actions, including those brought by the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), the Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") and State Attorneys General against mortgage servicers alleging wrongful foreclosure practices. Financial institutions have also been subjected to regulatory restrictions and limitations on foreclosure activity by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). Legal claims brought or threatened by the DOJ, HUD and 49 State Attorneys General against the five largest residential mortgage servicers in the country were settled in 2012. As part of this approximately $25 billion settlement, a portion of the settlement funds will be directed to home owners seeking to avoid foreclosure through mortgage modifications, and servicers are required to adopt specified measures to reduce mortgage obligations in certain situations. It is expected that the settlement will help many home owners avoid foreclosures that would otherwise have occurred in the near term, and with lower monthly payments and mortgage debts, for years to come. It is also foreseeable that other residential mortgage servicing companies that were not among the five included in the initial $25 billion settlement will agree to similar settlements that will further reduce the supply of houses in the process of foreclosure. Further, foreclosed owners and their legal representatives, including some prominent and well-financed legal firms, have brought litigation questioning the validity and finality of foreclosures that have already occurred. These developments may slow or reduce the supply of foreclosed houses available to us for purchase and may call into question the validity of our title to houses acquired at foreclosure, or result in rescission rights or other borrower remedies, which could result in a loss of a property purchased by us that may not be covered by title insurance, an increase in litigation costs incurred with respect to properties obtained through foreclosure, or delays in stabilizing and leasing such properties promptly after acquisition.17Table of Contents Our underwriting criteria and evaluation of properties involves a number of assumptions that may prove inaccurate, which may cause us to overpay for our properties or incur significant costs to renovate and market a property. In determining whether a particular property meets our investment criteria, we make a number of assumptions, including assumptions related to estimated time of possession and estimated renovation costs and time frames, annual operating costs, market rental rates and potential rent amounts, time from purchase to leasing, and resident default rates. These assumptions may prove inaccurate, causing us to pay too much for properties we acquire or to overvalue our properties, or our properties may fail to perform as we expect. Adjustments to the assumptions we make in evaluating potential purchases may result in fewer properties qualifying under our investment criteria. Reduction in the supply of properties that meet our investment criteria may adversely affect our ability to implement our investment strategy and operating results. Furthermore, the properties we acquire are likely to vary materially in terms of time to possession, renovation, quality, and type of construction, location, and hazards. Our success depends on our ability to estimate accurately the time and expense required to possess, renovate, repair, upgrade, and rent properties and to keep them maintained in rentable condition. In addition, market and regulatory environments relating to single-family residential properties have been changing rapidly, making future trends difficult to forecast. For example, an increasing number of homeowners now wait for an eviction notice or eviction proceedings to commence before vacating foreclosed premises, which significantly increases the period between the acquisition and leasing of a foreclosed property. Such changes affect the accuracy of our assumptions and, in turn, may adversely affect our operating results. The types of properties on which our acquisition strategy focuses have an increased risk of damage due to vandalism, mold and infestation, which may require extensive renovation prior to renting. Our acquisition strategy predominately targets distressed single-family properties that often involve defaults by home owners on their home loan obligations. For multiple reasons, distressed properties may be in worse physical condition than other similar properties. When a homeowner falls behind on a mortgage, the homeowner may cease to maintain the property in good condition, may vandalize it, or may abandon the property altogether. Vacant and neglected homes are subject to increased risks of vandalism, theft, mold, infestation, general deterioration, illegal occupation, and other maintenance problems that may worsen without appropriate attention and remediation. We generally will not hire independent third-party home inspectors to inspect properties before purchase and will instead rely primarily on our acquisition personnel to conduct detailed interior visual inspections when possible. These factors could cause our renovation costs to significantly exceed estimates, which may adversely affect our operating results. Certain of our older properties may contain lead-based paint, which we may be required to remove or could expose us to liability, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. Approximately 39% of the properties we owned as of December 31, 2014 are over 30 years old, and those premises may contain lead-based paint. The existence of lead paint is especially a concern in residential units and can cause health problems, particularly for children. A structure built prior to 1978 may contain lead-based paint and may present a potential exposure to lead; however, structures built after 1978 are not likely to contain lead-based paint. Federal and state laws impose certain disclosure requirements and restrict and regulate renovation activities on housing built before 1978. Violation of these restrictions could result in fines or criminal liability, and we could be subject to liability arising from lawsuits alleging personal injury or related claims. Although we attempt to comply with all such regulations, we have not conducted tests on our properties to determine the presence of lead-based paint and we cannot guarantee that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint in our properties. A substantial portion of our properties are purchased at auction, where we generally are not able to conduct a thorough inspection before purchasing the properties, and we may not accurately assess the extent of renovations required. More than 50% of our properties owned as of December 31, 2014 were purchased at auction and we may purchase properties at auction in the future. When we purchase properties at auction, we generally do not have the opportunity to conduct interior inspections and may not be able to access a property to conduct more than the most cursory of exterior inspections. These inspection processes may fail to reveal major defects associated with properties we acquire, which may result in renovation and maintenance costs and time frames that exceed our estimates and negatively affect our financial results and earnings.18Table of Contents Properties acquired through portfolio acquisitions may subject us to the risk of acquiring properties that do not fit our target investment criteria and may be costly or time consuming to divest, which may adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired and expect to continue to acquire properties purchased as portfolios from other owners of single-family properties, including in the Portfolio Acquisition. To the extent the management and leasing of such properties has not been consistent with our property management and leasing standards, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks relating to the condition of the properties, the credit quality and employment stability of the residents, and compliance with applicable laws, among others. In addition, financial and other information provided to us regarding such portfolios during our due diligence may be inaccurate, and we may not discover such inaccuracies until it is too late to seek remedies against such sellers. To the extent we timely pursue such remedies, we may not be able to successfully prevail against the seller in an action seeking damages for such inaccuracies. If we conclude that certain properties purchased in portfolio acquisitions do not fit our target investment criteria, we may decide to sell, rather than renovate and rent, these properties, which could take an extended period of time and may not result in a sale at an attractive price.The intended benefits of the Portfolio Acquisition may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial conditions, the market price of our common stock, and our distributions to our stockholders. We may be subject to additional risks and may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Portfolio Acquisition if the transaction is consummated. Upon completion of the Portfolio Acquisition, we will need to integrate the properties and other assets we acquire in the transaction with our existing operations. The Portfolio Acquisition represents the largest acquisition of a property portfolio by us other than our initial portfolio acquisition in connection with our formation in December 2012. We may not be able to accomplish the integration of the properties from the Portfolio Acquisition smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs. The diversion of our management’s attention from our current business operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Portfolio Acquisition and could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Also, we will acquire assets in connection with the Portfolio Acquisition on an "as is" basis with most representations of the seller surviving after the closing of the Portfolio Acquisition for a limited period of time and subject to a liability cap, which limits our future recourse against the seller for breaches of representations, which in turn may expose us to unexpected material losses or expenses in the future.Additional risks that we could face as a result of the Portfolio Acquisition include, among others:•inability to maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the anticipated timeframe or at all;•inability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees;•projections of estimated future revenues, capital expenditures, cost savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process might be inaccurate;•the value of acquired assets may decline;•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities and exposure to any undisclosed or unknown potential liabilities relating to the properties to be acquired; and•potential underinsured losses on the properties to be acquired.We cannot assure you that we would be able to integrate the Portfolio Acquisition without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Failure to realize the intended benefits of the Portfolio Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, the market price of our common stock and our distributions to our stockholders.We may not have control over timing and costs arising from renovation of properties, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Nearly all of our properties require some level of renovation immediately upon their acquisition or in the future following expiration of a lease or otherwise. We may acquire properties that we plan to extensively renovate. We may also 19Table of Contentsacquire properties that we expect to be in good condition only to discover unforeseen defects and problems that require extensive renovation and capital expenditures. In addition, we will be required to make ongoing capital improvements and replacements and may need to perform significant renovations and repairs from time to time that resident deposits and insurance may not cover. Our properties have infrastructure and appliances of varying ages and conditions. Consequently, we expect that we will routinely retain independent contractors and trade professionals to perform physical repair work, and we will be exposed to all of the risks inherent in property renovation, including potential cost overruns, increases in labor and materials costs, delays by contractors in completing work, delays in the timing of receiving necessary work permits, certificates of occupancy, and poor workmanship. Although we do not expect that renovation difficulties on any individual property will be significant to our overall results, if our assumptions regarding the costs or timing of renovation across our portfolio prove to be materially inaccurate, our operating results and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities or restrictions related to properties that we acquire for which we may have limited or no recourse. Assets and entities that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. Unknown or contingent liabilities might include liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to properties, unpaid real estate tax, utilities, or HOA charges for which a subsequent owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of customers, vendors, or other persons dealing with the acquired entities, and tax liabilities. Purchases of single-family properties acquired at auction, in short sales, from lenders, or in portfolio purchases typically involve few or no representations or warranties with respect to the properties and may allow us limited or no recourse against the sellers. Such properties also often have unpaid tax, utility, and HOA liabilities for which we may be obligated but fail to anticipate. As a result, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with acquired properties and entities may exceed our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, these properties may be subject to covenants, conditions, or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such properties, including prohibitions on leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process and such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to operate such properties as we intend. Our portfolio consists of properties that are geographically concentrated and any adverse developments in local economic conditions, the demand for single-family rental homes in these markets, or natural disasters may negatively affect our operating results. Our portfolio consists of properties that are geographically concentrated in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, and Texas. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 51% of our properties were concentrated in only three markets — Phoenix, Atlanta, and Tampa. As such, we are susceptible to local economic conditions, other regulations, the supply of and demand for single-family rental properties, and natural disasters in these areas. If there is a downturn in the local economies, an oversupply of or decrease in demand for single-family rental properties in these markets or natural disasters in these geographical areas, our business could be materially adversely affected to a greater extent than if we owned a real estate portfolio that was more geographically diversified. We base an important part of our business plan on our belief that property values and operating fundamentals for single-family properties in most of our markets will improve significantly over the next several years. However, most of our markets experienced substantial economic downturns in recent years and could experience similar or worse economic downturns in the future. We can provide no assurance as to the extent property values and operating fundamentals in these markets will improve, if at all. If these markets experience economic downturn in the future, the value of our properties could decline and our ability to execute our business plan may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A significant number of our residential properties are part of HOAs and we and our residents are subject to the rules and regulations of such HOAs, which may be arbitrary or restrictive, and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation with such HOAs, which would be costly. A significant number of the properties in our portfolio are located within HOAs, which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. HOAs in which we own properties may have or enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market, or lease our properties or require us to renovate or maintain such properties at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale, or the use of specific 20Table of Contentsconstruction materials used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes, which if met or exceeded, would cause us to incur additional costs to resell the property and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and we may have residents who violate HOA rules and for which we may be liable as the property owner. The boards of directors of the HOAs in which we own properties may not make important disclosures about the properties or may block our access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell our properties, impose assessments, or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. We may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with HOA rules before purchasing a property and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such property at a loss, prevent us from renting such property, or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such property, which would have an adverse effect on our returns on the property. We may be subject to losses that are uninsurable, not economically insurable, or in excess of our insurance coverage. We currently attempt to ensure that all of the properties we acquire are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, many of the policies covering casualty losses may be subject to substantial deductibles and carveouts, and we will be self-insured up to the amount of the deductibles and carveouts. Since some claims against us will not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we will be effectively self-insured for some claims. We may not carry or may discontinue certain types of insurance coverage on some or all of our properties if the cost of premiums for such insurance in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Our properties may be damaged by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, wind, hail, floods, landslides, and fires. In addition, our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities and we will be exposed to personal liability for accidents which may occur on our properties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all damages or losses from these events, or it may not be economically prudent to purchase insurance for certain types of losses, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. As a result, we may incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters or events which result in damage or injury. Because we tend to concentrate ownership in target markets, if we own numerous properties in an area affected by a natural disaster or similar catastrophic event, it could damage or destroy a substantial portion of our properties, and expose us to liabilities to our affected residents to immediately repair or replace their leaseholds on non-economic terms. If we experience losses that are uninsured or exceed policy limits, we could incur significant uninsured costs or liabilities, lose the capital invested in the properties, and lose the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, our environmental or personal liability may result in losses substantially in excess of the value of the related property.New or existing laws, regulations, and covenants that are applicable to our properties, including permit, license, and zoning requirements, may adversely affect our ability to make future acquisitions or renovations, result in significant costs or delays, and adversely affect our growth strategy. Our properties are subject to various covenants and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers or HOAs, may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos cleanup, or hazardous material abatement requirements. Existing regulatory policies may adversely affect the timing or cost of our future acquisitions or renovations, and additional regulations may increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our failure to obtain permits, licenses, and zoning approvals on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Class action, tenant rights, and consumer demands and litigation may result in increased expenses and harm our financial results. Numerous tenants’ rights and consumer rights organizations exist throughout the country and operate in our target markets, and as we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues, and with the large settlements identified above and the increased market for single-family rentals arising from displaced homeownership, some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues. While we intend to conduct our business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or 21Table of Contentsinjunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take, or what remedies they may seek. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us, or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our business operations, and may impose on us significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Title defects could lead to material losses on our investments in our properties. Our title to a property, especially those acquired at auction, may be challenged for a variety of reasons including allegations of defects in the foreclosure process. Title insurance may not prove adequate in these instances. We may continue to acquire a number of our homes on an “as is” basis at auctions or otherwise. When acquiring properties on an “as is” basis, title commitments are often not available prior to purchase, and title reports or title information may not reflect all senior liens, which may increase the possibility of acquiring houses outside predetermined acquisition and price parameters, purchasing residences with title defects and deed restrictions, HOA restrictions on leasing, or purchasing the wrong residence without the benefit of title insurance prior to closing. Although we use various policies, procedures, and practices to assess the state of title prior to purchase, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will be completely effective, which could lead to a material if not complete loss on our investment in such properties. For properties we acquire through the foreclosure auction process, we do not obtain title commitments prior to purchase, and we are not able to perform the type of title review that is customary in acquisitions of real property. As a result, our knowledge of potential title issues will be limited, and no title insurance protection will be in place. This lack of title knowledge and insurance protection may result in third parties having claims against our title to such properties that may materially and adversely affect the values of the properties or call into question the validity of our title to such properties. Without title insurance, we are fully exposed to, and would have to defend ourselves against, such claims. Further, if any such claims are superior to our title to the property we acquired, we risk loss of the property purchased.Increased scrutiny of title matters, particularly in the case of foreclosures, could lead to legal challenges with respect to the validity of the sale. In the absence of title insurance, the sale may be rescinded and we may be unable to recover our purchase price, resulting in a complete loss. Title insurance obtained subsequent to purchase offers little protection against discoverable defects because they are typically excluded from such policies. In addition, even if we are able to acquire title insurance on a property, the insurance may not cover all defects or the significant legal costs associated with obtaining clear title. Any of these risks could adversely affect our operating results, cash flows, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Eminent domain could lead to material losses on our investments in our properties. Governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which our properties are built. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow us to recover only the fair value of the affected property. Our acquisition strategy is premised on the concept that this “fair value” will be substantially less than the intrinsic value of the property for a number of years, and we could effectively have no profit potential from properties acquired by the government through eminent domain. Several cities are also exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire mortgages to assist homeowners to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of single-family properties in our markets. We are currently involved in a variety of legal actions and administrative proceedings as a result of which we may incur significant costs. We are currently involved in a variety of legal actions and administrative proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. These matters include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of the property. While we intend to vigorously defend any non-meritorious claim or proceeding, no assurance can be given that we will not incur significant costs or be subject to material losses as a result. 22Table of ContentsIncreasing real estate taxes, HOA fees, and insurance costs may negatively affect our financial results. As a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our properties is a significant component of our expenses. In addition, a significant portion of the properties in our portfolio are subject to HOAs, which have the power to increase monthly charges and make assessments for capital improvements and common area repairs. Real estate taxes, HOA fees, and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases, which can be outside of our control. If the costs associated with real estate taxes, HOA fees, and assessments or insurance should rise significantly and we are unable to raise rents to offset such increases, our results of operations would be negatively impacted.Declining real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.We periodically review the value of our properties to determine whether their value, based on market factors, projected income and generally accepted accounting principles, has permanently decreased such that it is necessary or appropriate to take an impairment loss in the relevant accounting period. Such a loss would cause an immediate reduction of net income in the applicable accounting period and would be reflected in a decrease in our balance sheet assets. The reduction of net income from impairment losses could lead to a reduction in our dividends, both in the relevant accounting period and in future periods. Even if we do not determine that it is necessary or appropriate to record an impairment loss, a reduction in the intrinsic value of a property would become manifest over time through reduced income from the property and would therefore affect our earnings and financial condition. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business we acquire and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our prospective and current residents, our employees and third-party service providers in our branch offices and on our networks and website. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and competitive position. As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Each year, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing, and any required remediation in a timely fashion. In addition, any remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act"), for so long as we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after our initial public offering, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose 23Table of Contentsconfidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may become subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. In addition, to comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. We may have difficulty selling our real estate investments or may be restricted from selling property, and we may choose to use all or a portion of the net proceeds from a sale of property for other purposes rather than distribute such proceeds to our stockholders.Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, as a result, we may have a limited ability to sell our properties. When we sell any of our properties, we may recognize a loss on such sale. We may elect not to distribute any proceeds from the sale of properties to our stockholders. Instead, we may use such proceeds for other purposes, including:•purchasing additional properties; •repaying debt, if any; •buying out interests of any co-venturers or other partners in any joint venture in which we are a party; •creating working capital reserves; or •making repairs, maintenance or other capital improvements or expenditures to our remaining properties. Our ability to sell our properties may also be limited by our need to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax that is imposed on gain recognized by a REIT from the sale of property characterized as dealer property. In order to ensure that we avoid such characterization, we may be required to hold our properties for a minimum period of time and comply with certain other requirements in the Code or dispose of our properties through a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”).Risks Related to the Real Estate IndustryOur operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry that could reduce the rent we receive, decrease the value of our properties, or adversely affect our financial condition.Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends as well as the value of our properties. These events include:•adverse changes in national or local real estate, economic, or demographic conditions;•vacancies or our inability to rent our homes on favorable terms or at favorable rental rates;•bankruptcies or adverse changes in the financial conditions of the residents of our properties;•resident turnover or our inability to collect rent from residents;•reduced demand for single-family home rentals and changes in the relative popularity of properties and neighborhoods;•increased supply of single-family homes and availability of financing;•increases in expenses, including insurance costs, labor costs, energy prices, real estate assessments, and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations, and governmental policies to the extent that we are unable to pass on these increases to our residents;•changes in interest rates, availability, and terms of debt financing;•the illiquidity of real estate investments generally;24Table of Contents•residents’ perceptions of the safety, convenience, and attractiveness of our properties and the neighborhoods where they are acquired;•the ability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases;•the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or covenants regulating rental rates; and•changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including health, safety, environmental, rental property, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and ability to pay dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected.Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the number of available properties that meet our investment criteria.The U.S. government, through the Federal Reserve, the FHA and the FDIC, has implemented a number of programs designed to provide home owners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the Home Affordable Modification Program, which seeks to provide relief to home owners whose mortgages are in or may be subject to foreclosure, and the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows certain borrowers who are underwater on their mortgage but current on their mortgage payments to refinance their loans. Several states, including states in which our current target markets are located, have adopted or are considering similar legislation. These programs and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, the modification or refinancing of mortgage loans or providing home owners with additional relief from loan foreclosures. Such loan modifications and other measures are intended and designed to lead to fewer foreclosures, which will decrease the supply of properties that meet our investment criteria.In addition, numerous federal and state legislatures have considered, proposed, or adopted legislation to constrain foreclosures, or may do so in the future. For example, in 2012, California enacted a law imposing new limitations on foreclosures while a request for a loan modification is pending. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which supervises and enforces federal consumer protection laws as they apply to banks, credit unions, and other financial companies, including mortgage servicers. It remains uncertain as to whether any of these measures will have a significant impact on foreclosure volumes or what the timing of that impact would be. If foreclosure volumes were to decline significantly, we would expect REO inventory levels to decline or to grow at a slower pace, which would make it more difficult to find target assets at attractive prices and might constrain our growth or reduce our long-term profitability. Also, the number of families seeking rental housing might be reduced by such legislation, reducing rental housing demand in our target markets.A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession or stagnation or decline in home values could impair our assets and harm our operations.The risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession. For example, the ability of residents to pay their rent typically depends on the income or assets of the residents. During an economic slowdown, unemployment rises and increasing numbers of residents have difficulty making payments on their obligations, including rent. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies or defaults could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Thus any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession, whether caused by global unrest, acts or threats of terrorism, breakdowns in the financial system or otherwise, could impair our assets or the performance of our assets and harm our operations.Risks Related to Our Common Stock Sales of common stock in the future may have adverse effects on our share price. Subject to applicable law, our board of directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to issue additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock (or securities which are convertible or exchangeable for common stock or preferred stock) on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. We cannot predict the effect, if 25Table of Contentsany, of future sales of our common stock, or the effect, if any, of the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. We may expand the scale of our operations and may utilize the proceeds of future equity offerings to accomplish that strategy. To the extent the proceeds of any future equity offering are invested in residential assets that have less favorable yield characteristics than our then existing portfolio, our stockholders will suffer dilution in their yield and distributable cash per share.Additionally, as of the closing of the Internalization, Pine River and Provident received an aggregate of 2,231,511 common units of our Operating Partnership, representing approximately 6.1% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2014 (or 5.7% of fully-diluted shares as of December 31, 2014 assuming issuance and redemption for common shares of the 2,231,511 common units to be received by the Pine River and Provident in the Internalization). These common units (or shares issued on redemption thereof) are subject to a one-year lock-up period, subject to certain exceptions. Following expiration of the lock-up and the filing and effectiveness of a resale registration statement covering the shares that may be issued upon a redemption of common units, these shares will be freely transferable without restriction. The market price of our common stock may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by Pine River and Provident lapse, especially if either or both were to sell a significant portion of their common stock within a short timeframe. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. The trading volume and market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially in the future. We cannot assure stockholders that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price or increase the volatility of our common stock include:•our actual or projected operating results, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity or changes in business strategy or prospects;•equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; •actual or anticipated accounting problems; •publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; •additions to or departures of our key personnel; •speculation in the press or investment community; •our failure to meet, or the lowering of, our earnings estimates or those of any securities analysts; •increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest, or to demand a higher distribution yield for our common stock, and which would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, if any; •failure to maintain our REIT qualification; •price and volume fluctuations in the stock market generally; and •general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay distributions in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year in order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through quarterly cash distributions of all 26Table of Contentsor substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders at any time or that the level of any distributions will achieve any specific market yield or will increase or be maintained over time. Any failure to achieve expected distributions could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock.We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently qualify as an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, preventing our stockholders from realizing a potential premium over the market price of our stock in a proposed acquisition. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law ("MGCL") may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock, provided that our board of directors did not approve in advance the transaction by which the stockholders otherwise would have become an interested stockholder) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting capital stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting capital stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, our officers and our personnel who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. 27Table of ContentsThe “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act (which we have) and at least three independent directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our charter contains a provision whereby we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series or class of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal (and applicable state and local) income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income and would be taxable to our stockholders under the rules generally applicable to corporate distributions. The corporate tax liability arising from this inability to deduct dividends paid could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not generally qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers is at a reduced rate of 15% or 20%, depending on the recipient’s income. Dividends paid by REITs to individuals and other non-corporate stockholders are not generally eligible for the reduced rate. This may cause investors to view REITs investments to be less attractive than non-REIT investments, which in turn may adversely affect the value of stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our economic performance. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to comply with REIT requirements. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount required under the Code. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. Compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Furthermore, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. The requirement to distribute most of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be used to make future acquisitions or capital expenditures, or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could adversely affect our economic performance. 28Table of ContentsIf the initial tax basis that we established for our assets is challenged by the IRS, we may have to distribute additional amounts in order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements.We established our initial tax basis in the assets received in connection with our formation and initial public offering in part by reference to the trading price of our common stock. The IRS could assert that our initial tax basis is less than the amount determined by us (or is a carryover basis). If the IRS were successful in sustaining such an assertion, this would result in decreased depreciation deductions and increased gain on any asset dispositions, and thus increased taxable income, as compared to the amounts we had originally calculated and reported. This could result in our being required to distribute additional amounts in order to maintain our REIT status and avoid corporate taxes and also could result in our owing interest and penalties. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter provides that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock. Our board may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our charter key off of the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise tax or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more of the relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of “dealer property,” we may hold some of our assets or conduct activities through subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates (a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or TRS). In addition, if we lend money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, the Code imposes a 100% tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We will structure our transaction with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm’s-length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% tax. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case our stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder, but subject to a limitation on the amount of cash that may be distributed. Taxable stockholders 29Table of Contentsreceiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, whether received as cash or shares of our common stock, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Under a previously applicable Revenue Procedure, 90% of taxable cash/stock dividends of a REIT could be paid in stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends in cash and stock. Moreover, various aspects of such a taxable cash/stock dividend are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock dividends or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock dividends have not been met. The REIT rules relating to prohibited transactions could affect our disposition of assets and adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, we may choose to transfer or dispose of some of the properties in our portfolios. A REIT’s net income from “prohibited transactions” is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, or “dealer property.” We intend to conduct our activities so as not to generate prohibited transaction income. However, the avoidance of this tax on prohibited transactions could cause us to undertake less substantial sales of property than we would otherwise undertake in order to maximize our profits. In addition, we may have to sell numerous properties to a single or a few purchasers, which could cause us to be less profitable than would be the case if we sold properties on a property-by-property basis. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership is organized and operates in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership and not an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of the partners is allocated its share of the Operating Partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, could cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for distribution to its partners, including us. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular: •part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominantly held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the REIT ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income; •part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt investor with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the investor incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; and •part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans 30Table of Contentswhich are exempt from federal income taxation under the Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code and a violation of these provisions could jeopardize our REIT status. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we may have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules relating to REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in frequent statutory changes and revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could adversely affect us or cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. 31Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.