D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we are unable to maintain current resource utilization rates and productivity levels, our revenues, profit margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our profitability and the cost of providing our services are affected by our utilization rate of the Globers in our Studios. If we are not able to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our professionals, our profit margin and our profitability may suffer. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to transition Globers from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and integrate new employees; •our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our delivery centers; •our ability to manage the attrition of our IT professionals; and •our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other activities that cannot be billed to our clients. Our revenue could also suffer if we misjudge demand patterns and do not recruit sufficient employees to satisfy demand. Employee shortages could prevent us from completing our contractual commitments in a timely manner and cause us to pay penalties or lose contracts or clients. In addition, we could incur increased payroll costs, which would negatively affect our utilization rates and our business. Increases in our current levels of attrition may increase our operating costs and adversely affect our future business prospects. The total attrition rate among our Globers was 20.2%, 22.2% and 20.9% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If our attrition rate were to increase, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. We compete for talented individuals not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies, among others, and there is a limited pool of individuals who have the skills and training needed to help us grow our company. High attrition rates of qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. 6 If the pricing structures that we use for our client contracts are based on inaccurate expectations and assumptions regarding the cost and complexity of performing our work, our contracts could be unprofitable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from operation. We perform our services primarily under time-and-materials contracts (where materials costs consist of travel and out-of-pocket expenses). We charge out the services performed by our Globers under these contracts at hourly rates that are agreed to at the time the contract is entered into. The hourly rates and other pricing terms negotiated with our clients are highly dependent on the complexity of the project, the mix of staffing we anticipate using on it, internal forecasts of our operating costs and predictions of increases in those costs influenced by wage inflation and other marketplace factors. Our predictions are based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. Typically, we do not have the ability to increase the hourly rates established at the outset of a client project in order to pass through to our client increases in salary costs driven by wage inflation and other marketplace factors. Because we conduct the majority of our operations through our operating subsidiaries located in Argentina, we are subject to the effects of wage inflation and other marketplace factors in Argentina, which have increased significantly in recent years. If increases in salary and other operating costs at our Argentine subsidiaries exceed our internal forecasts, the hourly rates established under our time-and-materials contracts might not be sufficient to recover those increased operating costs, which would make those contracts unprofitable for us, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from operations. In addition to our time-and-materials contracts, we undertake some engagements on a fixed-price basis. Revenues from our fixed-price contracts represented approximately 9.3%, 15.2% and 14.7% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our pricing in a fixed-price contract is highly dependent on our assumptions and forecasts about the costs we will incur to complete the related project, which are based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. Any failure by us accurately to estimate the resources and time required to complete a fixed-price contract on time and on budget or any unexpected increase in the cost of our Globers assigned to the related project, office space or materials could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any unexpected changes in economic conditions that affect any of the foregoing assumptions and predicitions could render contracts that would have been favorable to us when signed unfavorable. If we cannot maintain our culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our solutions, results of operations and business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our culture, which is the foundation that supports and facilitates our distinctive approach. As our company grows, and we are required to add more Globers and infrastructure to support our growth, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain our culture. If we fail to maintain a culture that fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork, our solutions, results of operations and business may be materially adversely affected. In addition, there may be disparities in wealth among our Globers, which may adversely impact relations among Globers and our culture in general. We may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, business and prospects. We intend to continue our expansion in the foreseeable future and to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. As we add new Studios, introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar, and we may not be able to mitigate these risks and challenges to successfully grow those services or markets. We may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, business and prospects. If we are unable to effectively manage the rapid growth of our business, our management personnel, systems and resources could face significant strains, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount, operations and revenues, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, the longer-term transition in our delivery mix from Buenos Aires-based staffing to increasingly decentralized staffing in other locations in Latin America (and, recently, the United States) has also placed additional operational and structural demands on our resources. Our future growth depends on recruiting, hiring and training technology professionals, growing our international operations, expanding our delivery capabilities, adding effective sales staff and management personnel, adding service offerings, maintaining existing clients and winning new business. Effective management of these and other growth initiatives will require us to continue to improve our infrastructure, execution standards and ability to expand services. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the execution of our engagements, our ability to attract and retain IT professionals and our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we were to lose the services of our senior management team or other key employees, our business operations, competitive position, client relationships, revenues and results of operation may be adversely affected. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior management team and other key employees. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our founders, members of our senior management team or other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key employees in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key employees or attract and retain new senior executives and key employees in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted. If any of our senior management team or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key IT professionals and staff members to them. Also, if any of our sales executives or other sales personnel, who generally maintain a close relationship with our clients, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients to that company, and our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, there could be unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by such personnel. If any dispute arises between any members of our senior management team or key employees and us, any noncompetition, nonsolicitation and nondisclosure agreements we have with our founders, senior executives or key employees might not provide effective protection to us in light of legal uncertainties associated with the enforceability of such agreements. 7 If we are unable to attract and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, we may not be able to maintain client relationships and grow effectively, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is labor intensive and, accordingly, our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and effectively utilize highly-skilled IT professionals. We believe that there is significant competition for technology professionals in Latin America, the United States, Europe and elsewhere who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services, and that such competition is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, the technology industry generally experiences a significant rate of turnover of its workforce. Our business plan is based on hiring and training a significant number of additional technology professionals each year in order to meet anticipated turnover and increased staffing needs. Our ability to properly staff projects, to maintain and renew existing engagements and to win new business depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified IT professionals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified professionals or that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Increased hiring by technology companies, particularly in Latin America, the United States and Europe, and increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals may lead to a shortage in the availability of qualified personnel in the locations where we operate and hire. Failure to hire and train or retain qualified technology professionals in sufficient numbers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not continue to innovate and remain at the forefront of emerging technologies and related market trends, we may lose clients and not remain competitive, which could cause our revenues and results of operations to suffer. Our success depends on delivering innovative software solutions that leverage emerging technologies and emerging market trends to drive increased revenues and effective communication with customers. Technological advances and innovation are constant in the technology services industry. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to stay abreast of technology developments so that we may continue to deliver solutions that our clients will wish to purchase. If we are unable to anticipate technology developments, enhance our existing services or develop and introduce new services to keep pace with such changes and meet changing client needs, we may lose clients and our revenues and results of operations could suffer. Our results of operations would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. Our competitors may be able to offer engineering, design and innovation services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those we offer. This may force us to compete on other fronts in addition to the quality of our services and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive, which we may be unable to do. If the current effective income tax rate payable by us in any country in which we operate is increased or if we lose any country-specific tax benefits, then our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in multiple jurisdictions. Our consolidated effective income tax rate could be materially adversely affected by several factors, including changes in the amount of income taxed by or allocated to the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits or examinations and any related interest or penalties. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. Transfer pricing regulations require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm’s-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arm’s-length terms. The determination of our consolidated provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by authorities in various jurisdictions. Under the Software Promotion Law, our operating subsidiaries in Argentina benefit from a 60% reduction in their corporate income tax rate (as applied to income from promoted software activities) and a tax credit of up to 70% of amounts paid for certain social security taxes (contributions) that may be offset against value-added tax liabilities. Law No. 26,692, the 2011 amendment to the Software Promotion Law (“Law No. 26,692”), also allows such tax credits to be applied to reduce our Argentine subsidiaries’ corporate income tax liability by a percentage not higher than the subsidiaries’ declared percentage of exports and extends the tax benefits under the Software Promotion Law until December 31, 2019. On September 16, 2013, the Argentine government published Regulatory Decree No. 1315/2013, which governs the implementation of the Software Promotion Law. Regulatory Decree No. 1315/2013 introduced specific requirements to qualify for the tax benefits contemplated by the Software Promotion Law. In particular, Regulatory Decree No. 1315/2013 provides that from September 17, 2014 through December 31, 2019, only those companies that are accepted for registration in the National Registry of Software Producers (Registro Nacional de Productores de Software y Servicios Informaticos) maintained by the Secretary of Industry (Secretaria de Industria del Ministerio de Industria) will be entitled to participate in the benefits of the Software Promotion Law. On June 25, 2014, our Argentine subsidiaries Huddle Group S.A., IAFH Global S.A. and Sistemas Globales S.A. applied for registration in the National Registry of Software Producers. As of the date of this annual report, all three subsidiaries have been accepted for registration in the National Registry of Software Producers effective retroactively from September 18, 2014. 8 Regulatory Decree No. 1315/2013 states that the 60% reduction in corporate income tax provided under the Software Promotion Law shall only become effective as of the beginning of the fiscal year after the date on which an applicant is accepted for registration in the National Registry of Software Producers. It is unclear under current Argentine tax rules whether applicants that were registered under the Software Promotion Law as originally enacted in 2004 would be permitted to apply, for the period from January 1, 2014 through September 17, 2014, the lower corporate income tax rate to which they are entitled under the Software Promotion Law as originally enacted. On March 11, 2014, the Argentine Federal Administration of Public Revenue (Administración Federal de Ingresos Publicos, or “AFIP”) issued General Resolution No. 3,597 (“General Resolution No. 3,597”). This measure provides that, as a further prerequisite to participation in the benefits of the Software Promotion Law, exporters of software and related services must register in a newly established Special Registry of Exporters of Services (Registro Especial de Exportadores de Servicios). On March 14, May 21 and May 28, 2014, our Argentine subsidiaries Huddle Group S.A., IAFH Global S.A. and Sistemas Globales S.A., respectively, applied and were accepted for registration in the Special Registry of Exporters of Services. In addition, General Resolution No. 3,597 states that any tax credits generated under the Software Promotion Law by a participant in the Software Promotion Law will only be valid until September 17, 2014. During the period from November 2014 through April 24, 2015, the Secretary and Subsecretary of Industry have issued rulings approving the registration in the National Registry of Software Producers of 33 software companies that were previously registered under the Software Promotion Law as originally enacted in 2004. In each case, the ruling made the effective date of registration retroactive to September 18, 2014. In addition, in each case the ruling provides that the benefits enjoyed under the Software Promotion Law as originally enacted are not extinguished until the ruling (including the rulings issued on March 26, 2015 approving the registration of Sistemas Globales S.A. and April 17, 2015 approving the registration of IAFH Global S.A. and Huddle Group S.A.) goes into effect (which occurs upon its date of publication in the Argentine government’s Boletin Oficial). Based on these rulings, management believes that General Resolution No. 3,597 has been interpreted by the Secretary of Industry as permitting tax credits generated under the Software Promotion Law to be valid until the effective date of registration in the National Registry of Software Producers. This interpretation would be consistent with the fact that the tax benefits accrued by us under the Software Promotion Law as originally enacted remain valid according to AFIP’s computer systems, regardless of the fact that our Argentine subsidiaries have not yet been accepted for registration by the Secretary of Industry. Our subsidiary in Uruguay, which is situated in a tax-free zone, benefits from a 0% income tax rate and an exemption from value-added tax. If these tax incentives in Argentina and Uruguay are changed, terminated, not extended or made available, or comparable new tax incentives are not introduced, we expect that our effective income tax rate and/or our operating expenses would increase significantly, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Certain Income Statement Line Items — Income Tax Expense” and “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Future Capital Requirements.” If any of our largest clients terminates, decreases the scope of, or fails to renew its business relationship or short-term contract with us, our revenues, business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from our ten largest clients. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our largest customer based on revenues, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Online, accounted for 8.7%, 6.4% and 9.3% of our revenues, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our ten largest clients accounted for 43.9%, 39.7% and 45.0% of our revenues, respectively. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these and other major clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. However, most of our client contracts are limited to short-term, discrete projects without any commitment to a specific volume of business or future work, and the volume of work performed for a specific client is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we are generally not our clients’ exclusive technology services provider. A major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenues for us in any subsequent year. The technology services we provide to our clients, and the revenues and income from those services, may decline or vary as the type and quantity of technology services we provide changes over time. In addition, our reliance on any individual client for a significant portion of our revenues may give that client a certain degree of pricing leverage against us when negotiating contracts and terms of service. In addition, a number of factors, including the following, other than our performance could cause the loss of or reduction in business or revenues from a client and these factors are not predictable: •our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other activities that cannot be billed to our clients. 9 •the business or financial condition of that client or the economy generally; •a change in strategic priorities by that client, resulting in a reduced level of spending on technology services; •a demand for price reductions by that client; and •a decision by that client to move work in-house or to one or several of our competitors. The loss or diminution in business from any of our major clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues, margins, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if general economic conditions in the United States, Europe or the global economy worsen. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the United States and, to a lesser extent, Europe. The 2008-2009 crisis in the financial and credit markets in United States, Europe and Asia led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of those regions, particularly the Eurozone, continuing to show significant signs of weakness. The technology services industry is particularly sensitive to the economic environment, and tends to decline during general economic downturns. If the U.S. or European economies further weaken or slow, pricing for our services may be depressed and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may, in turn, lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. The ongoing financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty could adversely impact our operating results unless and until economic conditions in Europe improve and the prospect of national debt defaults in Europe decline. To the extent that these adverse economic conditions continue or worsen, they will likely have a negative effect on our business. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to those changes, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face intense competition from technology and IT services providers, and an increase in competition, our inability to compete successfully, pricing pressures or loss of market share could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The market for technology and IT services is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and we expect competition to intensify. We believe that the principal competitive factors that we face are the ability to innovate; technical expertise and industry knowledge; end-to-end solution offerings; reputation and track record for high-quality and on-time delivery of work; effective employee recruiting; training and retention; responsiveness to clients’ business needs; scale; financial stability; and price. We face competition primarily from large global consulting and outsourcing firms, digital agencies and design firms, traditional technology outsourcing providers, and the in-house product development departments of our clients and potential clients. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we do. As a result, they may be able to compete more aggressively on pricing or devote greater resources to the development and promotion of technology and IT services. Companies based in some emerging markets also present significant price competition due to their competitive cost structures and tax advantages. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, competition from new technology services providers. Further, there is a risk that our clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their services needs as opposed to relying on a third-party vendor, such as our company. The technology services industry is also undergoing consolidation, which may result in increased competition in our target markets in the United States and Europe from larger firms that may have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources, may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands, and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can. Increased competition could also result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on a strong brand and corporate reputation, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our client base will be impaired and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Since many of our specific client engagements involve highly tailored solutions, our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients’ and prospective clients’ determination of whether to engage us. We believe the Globant brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented IT professionals. However, our corporate reputation is susceptible to damage by actions or statements made by current or former employees or clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings and government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about our company, even if based on false rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. In particular, damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of our Globant brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us and result in a decline in the price of our common shares. 10 We are seeking to expand our presence in the United States, which entails significant expenses and deployment of employees on-site with our clients. If we are unable to manage our operational expansion into the United States, it may adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. A key element of Globant’s strategy is to expand our delivery footprint, including by increasing the number of employees that are deployed onsite at our clients or near client locations. In particular, we intend to focus our recruitment efforts on the United States. Client demands, the availability of high-quality technical and operational personnel at attractive compensation rates, regulatory environments and other pertinent factors may vary significantly by region and our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable to other regions. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand our delivery footprint effectively into our target markets in the United States. If we are unable to manage our expansion efforts effectively, if our expansion plans take longer to implement than expected or if our costs for these efforts exceed our expectations, our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If a significant number of our Globers were to join unions, our labor costs and our business could be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2014, we had 77 Globers, 70 of whom work at our delivery center located in Rosario, Argentina, who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Federación Argentina de Empleados de Comercio y Servicios (“FAECYS”), which is renewed on an annual basis. In addition, our primary Argentine subsidiary is defending a lawsuit filed by FAECYS in which FAECYS is demanding the application of its collective labor agreement to unspecified categories of employees of that subsidiary. According to FAECYS’s claim, our principal Argentine subsidiary would have been required to withhold and transfer to FAECYS an amount equal to 0.5% of the gross monthly salaries of that subsidiary’s payroll from October 2006 to October 2011. Furthermore, FAECYS’ claim may be increased to cover withholdings from October 2006 through the date of a future judgment. Several Argentine technology companies are facing similar lawsuits filed by FAECYS which have been decided in favor of both the companies and FAECYS. Under Argentine law, judicial decisions only apply to the particular case at hand. There is no stare decisis and courts’ decisions are not binding on lower courts even in the same jurisdiction although they may be used as guidelines on other similar cases. See “Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” and the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If a significant additional number of our Globers were to join unions, our labor costs and our business could be negatively affected. Our revenues are dependent on a limited number of industries, and any decrease in demand for technology services in these industries could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of our clients are concentrated in the following industries: professional services; media and entertainment; technology and telecommunications; and banks, financial services and insurance, which industries, in the aggregate, constituted 75.1%, 78.5% and 82.7% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our business growth largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries and other industries that we may target in the future, as well as on trends in these industries to purchase technology services or to move such services in-house. A downturn in any of these or our targeted industries, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to spend on technology services in any of these industries could result in a decrease in the demand for our services and materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a worsening of economic conditions in the media and entertainment industry and significant consolidation in that industry may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Other developments in the industries in which we operate may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries, and we may not be able to successfully anticipate and prepare for any such changes. For example, consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may adversely affect our business. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their profitability. This, in turn, may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have a relatively short operating history and operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, may increase the risk that we will not continue to be successful and, accordingly, increases the risk of your investment. Our company was founded in 2003 and, therefore, has a relatively short operating history. In addition, the technology services industry itself is continuously evolving. Competition, fueled by rapidly changing consumer demands and constant technological developments, renders the technology services industry one in which success and performance metrics are difficult to predict and measure. Because services and technologies are rapidly evolving and each company within the industry can vary greatly in terms of the services it provides, its business model, and its results of operations, it can be difficult to predict how any company’s services, including ours, will be received in the market. While enterprises have been willing to devote significant resources to incorporate emerging technologies and related market trends into their business models, enterprises may not continue to spend any significant portion of their budgets on our services in the future. Neither our past financial performance nor the past financial performance of any other company in the technology services industry is indicative of how our company will fare financially in the future. Our future profits may vary substantially from those of other companies, and those we have achieved in the past, making investment in our company risky and speculative. If our clients’ demand for our services declines, as a result of economic conditions, market factors or shifts in the technology industry, our business would suffer and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 11 We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability and cash flows could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have made and continue to make significant contractual commitments related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our delivery centers. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with opening new facilities. These expansions will likely increase our fixed costs and if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability and cash flows may be negatively affected. If we cause disruptions in our clients’ businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, which could cause us to lose clients, have a negative effect on our corporate reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. If our Globers make errors in the course of delivering services to our clients or fail to consistently meet service requirements of a client, these errors or failures could disrupt the client’s business, which could result in a reduction in our revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a contractual requirement could seriously damage our corporate reputation and limit our ability to attract new business. The services we provide are often critical to our clients’ businesses. Certain of our client contracts require us to comply with security obligations including maintaining network security and backup data, ensuring our network is virus-free, maintaining business continuity planning procedures, and verifying the integrity of employees that work with our clients by conducting background checks. Any failure in a client’s system or breach of security relating to the services we provide to the client could damage our reputation or result in a claim for substantial damages against us. Any significant failure of our equipment or systems, or any major disruption to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, and adversely affect our results of operations. Under our client contracts, our liability for breach of our obligations is in some cases limited pursuant to the terms of the contract. Such limitations may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under our contracts. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us in amounts greater than those covered by our current insurance policies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if such assertions against us are unsuccessful, we may incur reputational harm and substantial legal fees. We may face losses or reputational damage if our software solutions turn out to contain undetected software defects. A significant amount of our business involves developing software solutions for our clients as part of our provision of technology services. We are required to make certain representations and warranties to our clients regarding the quality and functionality of our software. Any undetected software defects could result in liability to our clients under certain contracts as well as losses resulting from any litigation initiated by clients due to any losses sustained as a result of the defects. Any such liability or losses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition as well as on our reputation with our clients and in the technology services market in general. Our client relationships, revenues, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we experience disruptions in our Internet infrastructure, telecommunications or IT systems. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, Internet infrastructure or computer virus attacks could damage our reputation and harm our ability to deliver services to our clients, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a loss of business and related reduction of our revenues. We may not be able to consistently maintain active voice and data communications between our various global operations and with our clients due to disruptions in telecommunication networks and power supply, system failures or computer virus attacks. Any significant failure in our ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder our performance and our ability to complete projects on time. Such failure to perform on client contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our computer system is or becomes vulnerable to security breaches, or if any of our employees misappropriates data, we may face reputational damage, lose clients and revenues, or incur losses. We often have access to or are required to collect and store confidential client and customer data. Many of our client contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our Globers or former Globers, penetrates our network security or misappropriates data or code that belongs to us, our clients, or our clients’ customers, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. 12 Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure, loss or theft of confidential information or intellectual property belonging to our clients or our clients’ customers, or otherwise, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients and revenues, and result in financial and other potential losses by us. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the various conflicting and/or onerous legal and regulatory requirements imposed on us by the countries where we operate. Since we provide services to clients throughout the world, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal requirements on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, anti-bribery, whistle blowing, internal and disclosure control obligations, data protection and privacy and labor relations. Our failure to comply with these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, disgorgement of profits, prohibitions on doing business and adverse impact on our reputation. Our failure to comply with these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients could also result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degree of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to defend us and preserve our rights. Due to our operating in a number of countries in Latin America, the United States and the United Kingdom, we are also subject to risks relating to compliance with a variety of national and local laws including multiple tax regimes, labor laws, employee health safety and wages and benefits laws. We may, from time to time, be subject to litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former Globers individually or as part of class actions, including claims of wrongful terminations, discrimination, misclassification or other violations of labor law or other alleged conduct. We may also, from time to time, be subject to litigation resulting from claims against us by third parties, including claims of breach of noncompete and confidentiality provisions of our employees’ former employment agreements with such third parties. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise our company utilizes in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual capital. In order to protect our rights in this intellectual capital, we rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We hold several trademarks and have a pending U.S. patent application and intend to submit additional U.S. federal and foreign patent and trademark applications for developments relating to additional service offerings in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining existing or obtaining future intellectual property rights or registrations. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in the countries in which we operate in effect now or in the future or the contractual and other protective measures we take are adequate to protect us from misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual capital or that such laws, rules, regulations and treaties will not change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights or that any such steps will be successful. We cannot assure you that we have taken all necessary steps to enforce our intellectual property rights in every jurisdiction in which we operate and we cannot assure you that the intellectual property laws of any jurisdiction in which we operate are adequate to protect our interest or that any favorable judgment obtained by us with respect thereto will be enforced in the courts. Misappropriation by third parties of, or other failure to protect, our intellectual property, including the costs of enforcing our intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. If we incur any liability for a violation of the intellectual property rights of others, our reputation, business, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our technology, tools, code, methodologies and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. We typically indemnify clients who purchase our services and solutions against potential infringement of intellectual property rights, which subjects us to the risk of indemnification claims. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our clients, regardless of the merits of these claims and are often not subject to liability limits or exclusion of consequential, indirect or punitive damages. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our clients, redesign or cease offering our allegedly infringing services or solutions, or obtain licenses for the intellectual property such services or solutions allegedly infringe. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our clients may stop using our services or solutions. 13 Further, our current and former Globers could challenge our exclusive rights to the software they have developed in the course of their employment. In certain countries in which we operate, an employer is deemed to own the copyright work created by its employees during the course, and within the scope, of their employment, but the employer may be required to satisfy additional legal requirements in order to make further use and dispose of such works. While we believe that we have complied with all such requirements, and have fulfilled all requirements necessary to acquire all rights in software developed by our independent contractors, these requirements are often ambiguously defined and enforced. As a result, we cannot assure you that we would be successful in defending against any claim by our current or former Globers or independent contractors challenging our exclusive rights over the use and transfer of works those Globers or independent contractors created or requesting additional compensation for such works. We are subject to additional risks as a result of our recent and possible future acquisitions and the hiring of new employees who may misappropriate intellectual property from their former employers. The developers of the technology that we have acquired or may acquire may not have appropriately created, maintained or enforced intellectual property rights in such technology. Indemnification and other rights under acquisition documents may be limited in term and scope and may therefore provide little or no protection from these risks. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology involving the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop substitute non-infringing technology, or rebrand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and would require us to cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our software product development services or solutions until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. Any intellectual property claim or litigation, whether we ultimately win or lose, could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recognize revenues in the period in which our services are performed and the costs of those services are incurred, which may cause our margins to fluctuate. We perform our services primarily under time-and-materials contracts (where our materials costs consist of travel and out-of-pocket expenses) and, to a lesser extent, fixed-price contracts. All revenues are recognized pursuant to applicable accounting standards. We recognize revenues when realized or realizable and earned, which is when the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. If there is uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We recognize revenues from fixed-price contracts based on the percentage of completion method. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system or solution is specified by the client, revenues are deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. In the absence of a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenues are recognized upon receipt of final acceptance from the client. Uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for our services or our failure to meet all the acceptance criteria, or otherwise meet a client’s expectations, may result in our having to record the cost related to the performance of services in the period that services were rendered, but delay the timing of revenue recognition to a future period in which all acceptance criteria have been met, which may cause our margins to fluctuate. Our cash flows and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to collect on billed and unbilled receivables from clients. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain provisions against receivables. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we may need to adjust our provisions. We cannot assure you that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions, such as a potential credit crisis in the global financial system, could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy. Such conditions could cause clients to delay payment, request modifications of their payment terms, or default on their payment obligations to us, all of which could increase our receivables balance. Timely collection of fees for client services also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and subsequently bill for and collect our contractual service fees. If we are unable to meet our contractual obligations, we might experience delays in the collection of or be unable to collect our client balances, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time required to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected, which could affect our ability to make necessary investments and, therefore, our results of operations. 14 If we are faced with immigration or work permit restrictions in any country where we currently have personnel onsite at a client location or would like to expand our delivery footprint, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. A key part of Globant’s strategy is to expand our delivery footprint, including by increasing the number of employees that are deployed onsite at our clients or near client locations. Therefore, we must comply with the immigration, work permit and visa laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate. Our future inability to obtain or renew sufficient work permits and/or visas due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration, work permit and visa regulations in jurisdictions such as the United States, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain favorable pricing terms with current or new suppliers, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We rely to a limited extent on suppliers of goods and services. In some cases, we have contracts or oral agreements with such parties guaranteeing us favorable pricing terms. We cannot guarantee our ability to maintain such pricing terms beyond the date that pricing terms are fixed pursuant to a written agreement. Furthermore, should economic circumstances change, such that suppliers find it beneficial to change or attempt to renegotiate such pricing terms in their favor, we cannot assure you that we would be able to withstand an increase or achieve a favorable outcome in any such negotiation. Any change in our pricing terms would increase our costs and expenses, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our current insurance coverage is or becomes insufficient to protect against losses incurred, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We provide technology services that are integral to our clients’ businesses. If we were to default in the provision of any contractually agreed-upon services, our clients could suffer significant damages and make claims upon us for those damages. Although we believe that we have adequate processes in place to protect against defaults in the provisions of services, errors and omissions may occur. We currently carry $10 million in errors and omissions liability coverage for all of the services we provide. To the extent client damages are deemed recoverable against us in amounts substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if our claims for insurance coverage are denied by our insurance carriers for any reason including, but not limited to a client’s failure to provide insurance carrier-required documentation or a client’s failure to follow insurance carrier-required claim settlement procedures, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Strategic acquisitions to complement and expand our business have been and will likely remain an important part of our competitive strategy. If we fail to acquire companies whose prospects, when combined with our company, would increase our value, or if we acquire and fail to efficiently integrate such other companies, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have expanded, and may continue to expand, our operations through strategically targeted acquisitions focused on deepening our relationships with key clients, extending our technological capacities, broadening our service offering and expanding the geographic footprint of our delivery centers, including beyond Latin America. We completed two acquisitions in 2008, one in 2011, two in 2012, one in 2013 and two in 2014. Financing of any future acquisition could require the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of equity or a combination of both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delays or other operational or financial risks and problems. Furthermore, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition, any client satisfaction or performance problems within an acquired business could have a material adverse impact on our company’s corporate reputation and brand. We cannot assure you that any acquired businesses would achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Any failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred significant share-based compensation expense in 2012, and may in the future continue to incur share-based compensation expense, which could adversely impact our profits or the trading price of our common shares. From 2006 through June 30, 2012, we granted a total of 1,306,697 share appreciation rights (“SARs”) to a limited number of key employees pursuant to SAR award agreements as a form of long-term incentive compensation. In June 2012, we decided to replace the SARs with share options, under which the beneficiary employee has an option to purchase our common shares that is exercisable upon the earliest of (i) the effective date of the share option agreement, provided that the employee has been continuously employed by us (or any of our subsidiaries), (ii) an event of liquidity, as defined in the share option agreement, or (iii) an initial public offering registered under the Securities Act. The exercise price of the share options was unchanged from the original SAR award agreements and is required to be paid by the employee in cash at the date of exercise. The share option agreements were signed on June 30, 2012 by all employees who had been awarded SARs under the SAR award agreements. IFRS prescribes how we account for share-based compensation, which could adversely or negatively impact our results of operations or the price of our common shares. IFRS requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in our statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service as an employee in exchange for the equity award. The modification of the SAR award agreements into share option agreements under which the options are immediately exercisable for those employees who have met the service requirement under the share option agreements were recorded in the year ended December 31, 2012 as a modification of terms of the original agreement prospectively as of the date of change. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded $11.7 million of share-based compensation expense related to these share option agreements. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded $0.6 and $0.8 million of share-based compensation expense related to these share option agreements, respectively. 15 On July 3, 2014, our board of directors and shareholders approved and adopted the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Pursuant to this plan, on July 18, 2014, the first trading day of Globant common shares on the NYSE, we made the annual grants under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan to certain executive officers and other employees. The grants included options to purchase 589,000 common shares with a vesting period of four years. 25% of the options become exercisable on each anniversary of the grant date. Share-based compensation expense for awards of equity instruments is determined based on the fair value of the awards at the grant date. Upon exercise of the option, each employee share option converts into one common share of Globant. No amounts are paid or payable by the recipient on receipt of the option. The options carry neither rights to dividends nor voting rights. Options may be exercised at any time from the date of vesting to the date of their expiration (ten years after the grant date). The expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plan. However, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the number of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the trading price of our common shares. Our ability to expand our business and procure new contracts or enter into beneficial business arrangements could be affected to the extent we enter into agreements with clients containing noncompetition clauses. We are a party to an agreement with one client that restricts our ability to perform similar services for its competitors. We may in the future enter into agreements with clients that restrict our ability to accept assignments from, or render similar services to, those clients’ customers, require us to obtain our clients’ prior written consent to provide services to their customers or restrict our ability to compete with our clients, or bid for or accept any assignment for which those clients are bidding or negotiating. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in a specific industry in which we have expertise and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Operating in Latin America and Argentina Our principal operating subsidiary is based in Argentina and we have subsidiaries in Colombia, Uruguay, Peru, Mexico and Brazil. There are significant risks to operating in those countries that should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. Latin America Latin America has experienced adverse economic conditions that may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent to a certain extent upon the economic conditions prevalent in Argentina as well as the other Latin American countries in which we operate, such as Colombia, Uruguay, Peru, Mexico and Brazil. Latin American countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and economic instability. Currently, as a consequence of adverse economic conditions in global markets and diminishing commodity prices, the economic growth rates of the economies of many Latin American countries have slowed and some have entered mild recessions. Adverse economic conditions in any of these countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Latin American governments have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over the economies of the countries where we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Historically, governments in Latin America have frequently intervened in the economies of their respective countries and have occasionally made significant changes in policy and regulations. Governmental actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among others, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and tariffs. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected by: •changes in government policies or regulations, including such factors as exchange rates and exchange control policies; •inflation rates; •interest rates; •tariff and inflation control policies; •price control policies; 16 •liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; •electricity rationing; •tax policies, royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; and •other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting the countries where we operate. Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation in Latin America, may adversely affect the economies in the countries where we operate in Latin America, our business and results of operations. Some of the countries in which we operate in Latin America have experienced, or are currently experiencing, high rates of inflation. Although inflation rates in many of these countries have been relatively low in the recent past, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. The measures taken by the governments of these countries to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and retarding economic growth. Inflation, measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed significantly to economic uncertainty in many of these countries and to heightened volatility in their securities markets. Periods of higher inflation may also slow the growth rate of local economies. Inflation is also likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to fully pass on to our clients, which could adversely affect our operating margins and operating income. We face the risk of political and economic crises, instability, terrorism, civil strife, expropriation and other risks of doing business in Latin America, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our operations primarily in Latin America. Economic and political developments in Latin America, including future economic changes or crises (such as inflation, currency devaluation or recession), government deadlock, political instability, terrorism, civil strife, changes in laws and regulations, restrictions on the repatriation of dividends or profits, expropriation or nationalization of property, restrictions on currency convertibility, volatility of the foreign exchange market and exchange controls could impact our operations or the market value of our common shares and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Argentina Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates (most notably between the U.S. dollar and the Argentine peso). We conduct a substantial portion of our operations outside the United States, and our businesses may be impacted by significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The exposure associated with generating revenues and incurring expenses in different currencies and the devaluation of local currency revenues impairing the value of investments in U.S. dollars. Our consolidated financial statements and those of most of our subsidiaries are presented in U.S. dollars, whereas some of our subsidiaries’ operations are performed in local currencies. Therefore, the resulting exchange differences arising from the translation to our presentation currency are recognized in the finance gain or expense item or as a separate component of equity depending on the functional currency for each subsidiary. Fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could impair the comparability of our results from period to period and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our results of operations and financial condition are particularly sensitive to changes in the Argentine peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate because the majority of our operations are conducted in Argentina and therefore our costs are incurred, for the most-part, in Argentine pesos, while the substantial portion of our revenues are generated outside of Argentina in U.S. dollars. Consequently, appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the Argentine peso, to the extent not offset by inflation in Argentina, could result in favorable variations in our operating margins and, conversely, depreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the Argentine peso could impact our operating margins negatively. In 2002, the enactment of Argentine Law No. 25,561 ended more than a decade of uninterrupted Argentine peso/U.S. dollar parity, and the value of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly since then. As a result of this economic instability, the Argentine peso has been subject to significant devaluation against the U.S. dollar and Argentina’s foreign debt rating has been downgraded on multiple occasions based upon concerns regarding economic conditions and rising fears of increased inflationary pressures. This uncertainty may also adversely impact Argentina’s ability to attract capital. The increasing level of inflation in Argentina has generated pressure for further depreciation of the Argentine peso. The Argentine peso depreciated 10.1% against the U.S. dollar in 2009, 4.7% in 2010, 8.0% in 2011, 14.4% in 2012, 32.5% in 2013 and 31.2% in 2014. The significant restrictions on the purchase of foreign currency have given rise to the development of an implied rate of exchange. See “— Restrictions on transfers of foreign currency and the repatriation of capital from Argentina may impair our ability to receive dividends and distributions from, and the proceeds of any sale of, our assets in Argentina.” The implied rate of exchange may increase or decrease in the future. We cannot predict future fluctuations in the Argentine peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate. As a result, fluctuations in the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar may have a material impact on the value of an investment in our common shares. Because most of our operations are located in Argentina, large variations in the comparative value of the Argentine peso and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our business. 17 Despite the positive effects of the depreciation of the Argentine peso on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, including our business, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on the financial condition of many Argentine businesses and individuals. The devaluation of the Argentine peso has had a negative impact on the ability of certain Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, and has also led to very high inflation initially and significantly reduced real wages. The devaluation has also negatively impacted businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, and adversely affected the Argentine government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Argentine peso is significantly devalued, the Argentine economy and our business could be adversely affected. A significant appreciation of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar could also adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our business. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in the Argentine peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate because the majority of our operations are conducted in Argentina and therefore our costs are incurred, for the most-part, in Argentine pesos. In the short term, a significant appreciation of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect exports and the desire of foreign companies to purchase services from Argentina. Our business is dependent to a certain extent on maintaining our labor and other costs competitive with those of companies located in other regions around the world from which technology and IT services may be purchased by clients in the United States and Europe. We periodically evaluate the need for hedging strategies with our board of directors, including the use of such instruments to mitigate the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our principal Argentine operating subsidiary, Sistemas Globales S.A., entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce its risk of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency. We may in the future, as circumstances warrant, decide to enter into derivative transactions to hedge our exposure to the Argentine peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate. If we do not hedge such exposure or we do not do so effectively, an appreciation of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar may raise our costs, which would increase the prices of our services to our customers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government intervention in the Argentine economy, particularly expropriation policies, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The Argentine government has assumed substantial control over the Argentine economy and it may increase its level of intervention in certain areas, particularly expropriation policies. For example, on April 16, 2012, the Argentine government sent a bill to the Argentine Congress to expropriate 51% of the Class D Shares of YPF S.A. (“YPF”), the main Argentine oil company. The expropriation law was passed by Congress on May 3, 2012 and provides for the expropriation of 51% of the share capital of YPF, represented by an identical stake of Class D shares owned, directly or indirectly, by Repsol, S.A. and its affiliates. The Argentine government and the Argentine provinces that are members of the Federal Organization of Hydrocarbon Producing Provinces own 51% and 49%, respectively, of the YPF shares subject to seizure. However, during February 2014, the Argentine government agreed to pay Repsol S.A. $5.0 billion in Argentine sovereign bonds to compensate them for the seizure of the YPF shares. This agreement has been ratified by Repsol S.A.’s shareholders and by the Argentine Congress through Law No. 26,932, which was passed on April 24, 2014 and Argentine sovereign bonds have been delivered to Repsol S.A. There are other recent examples of government intervention. In December 2012 and August 2013, the Argentine Congress established new regulations relating to domestic capital markets. The new regulations generally provide for increased intervention in the capital markets by the government, authorizing, for example, the Comisión Nacional de Valores (“CNV”) to appoint observers with the ability to veto the decisions of the board of directors of companies admitted to the public offering regime under certain circumstances and suspend the board of directors for a period of up to 180 days. Supply Law No. 26,991 became effective on September 28, 2014 (the “Supply Law”). The Supply Law applies to all economic processes linked to goods, facilities and services which, either directly or indirectly, satisfy basic needs destined to the general welfare of the population, and grants broad delegations of powers to the Trade Secretaria, dependent on the Ministry of Economy and Public Finance (the “Enforcement Authority”) to regulate such processes. The Supply Law also provides that in a situation of shortage or scarcity of goods or services which satisfy basic needs destined to the general welfare of the population, the Enforcement Authority may order their sale, production, distribution and delivery throughout the Argentine territory. Expropriations and other interventions by the Argentine government such as the one relating to YPF can have an adverse impact on the level of foreign investment in Argentina, the access of Argentine companies to the international capital markets and Argentina’s commercial and diplomatic relations with other countries. Argentine presidential, congressional, municipal and state government elections are expected to be held in October 2015. Uncertainty resulting from the election campaigns regarding the results of the elections, or as a result of uncertainty as to whether the new Argentine government will implement changes in policy or regulation, may adversely affect the Argentine economy. The president of Argentina and its congress each have considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Argentine economy and, consequently, affect our results of operations or financial condition. We can offer no assurances that the policies that may be implemented by the Argentine government after such elections will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 18 The approval of judicial reforms proposed by the Argentine government could adversely affect our operations. On April 8, 2013, the Argentine government submitted to the Argentine Congress three bills relating to: (a) the creation of three courts of cassation and the amendment of the Civil and Commercial Procedure Code, which was passed by the Argentine Congress on April 24, 2013 (the “Courts of Cassation Law”); (b) amendments to Law No. 24,937, which governs the Council of the Judiciary, which was passed by the Argentine Congress on May 8, 2013 (the “Council of the Judiciary Law”); and (c) a new regulation providing for precautionary measures in proceedings involving the federal government or any of its decentralized entities, which was passed by the Argentine Congress on April 24, 2013 (the “Precautionary Proceedings Law”). The Courts of Cassation Law creates: (1) a federal court of cassation to review administrative law matters; (2) a federal court of cassation to review labor and social security law matters; and (3) a federal court of cassation to review civil and commercial law matters. These three new federal courts (collectively, the “Cassation Courts”) will have jurisdiction to review appeals of decisions rendered by the Argentine federal Courts of Appeals on administrative law, labor and social security, and civil and commercial matters, respectively, and to decide the constitutionality of those appeals. Appointees to the Cassation Courts must satisfy the same conditions as Supreme Court judicial candidates in order to be named to the Cassation Courts. Abbreviated designation procedures may be implemented to expedite the appointment process. Finally, the Courts of Cassation Law reduces the number of members of the Supreme Court of Argentina from seven to five. As a result of the passing of this law, judicial proceedings before federal and national courts may require more time and cost to pursue because there will be a new level of judicial review before having access to the Argentine federal Supreme Court. The Council of the Judiciary Law increases the number of members of the Council of the Judiciary from 13 to 19, including three judges, three lawyers’ representatives, six academic representatives, six congressmen (four from the majority party and two from the minority party) and a member of the federal executive branch. Furthermore, the Council of the Judiciary Law changes the methodology for appointing members to the Council. Members of the Council were previously appointed by their peers. According to the Council of the Judiciary Law, members will be appointed concurrently with the general presidential elections by means of the existing open, compulsory and simultaneous primary elections. The Council of the Judiciary is entrusted with broad powers to: (1) organize and run the judicial system, including the training, appointment and removal of judges; (2) approve the draft proposal for the judicial annual budget, establish the system of compensation and provide for the administration of all judicial personnel; (3) sanction judges and retired judges; and (4) amend the regulatory regime applicable to the judiciary system. Consequently, the election of the members of the Council of the Judiciary is expected to be politically influenced, and non-political constituencies for the removal of judges would have less impact. Under the Precautionary Proceedings Law, judges will need to establish a period of effectiveness of precautionary measures, under penalty of nullity, against the Argentine government and its agencies of no longer than six months in normal proceedings, and three months in abbreviated proceedings and in cases of “ amparo .” The term of precautionary measures may be extended for six months if it is in the public interest. Consideration will be given to any dilatory tactics or proactive measures taken by the party that was awarded the precautionary measures. In addition, judges are allowed to grant precautionary measures that would affect or disrupt the purposes, properties or revenues of the Argentine federal government, nor could judges impose personal monetary charges on public officers. Moreover, precautionary measures against the Argentine federal government or its decentralized entities will be effective once the requesting party posts an injunction bond for the expenditures or damages that the measure may cause. The injunction bond will not be required when the precautionary measures are granted to the federal government or any of its decentralized entities. Finally, the law does not permit precautionary measures that concur with the purpose of the substantive litigation. On June 18, 2013, the Supreme Court declared certain sections of the Council of the Judiciary Law unconstitutional, in particular those sections referring to the increase in the number of members of the Council of the Judiciary and the methodology for appointing such members. The Court of Cassation Law and the Precautionary Proceedings Law have also been challenged before the Argentine courts, although final resolution of these challenges by the Supreme Court is still pending. These laws may have an effect on our operations in Argentina, since it may become more difficult to guarantee our right to a timely and unbiased judicial review of administrative decisions. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by high and possibly increasing inflation in Argentina. Since 2007, the inflation index has been extensively discussed in the Argentine economy. The intervention of the Argentine government in the National Institute of Statistics and Census Information (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos, or “INDEC”) and the change in the way the inflation index is measured have resulted in disagreements between the Argentine government and private consultants as to the actual annual inflation rate. The Argentine government has imposed fines on private consultants reporting inflation rates higher than the INDEC data. As a result, private consultants typically share their data with Argentine lawmakers who oppose the current government, who release such data from time to time. This could result in a further decrease in confidence in Argentina’s economy. According to the INDEC, the consumer price index increased 21.7%, 10.9% and 10.8% in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation rates has slowed the rebound in the long-term credit market. Private estimates, on average, refer to annual rates of inflation substantially in excess of those published by the INDEC. For example, opposition lawmakers in Argentina reported an inflation rate of 38.5%, 28.3% and 25.6% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 19 In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions that would permit stable growth. High inflation may also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness in international markets and adversely affect economic activity and employment, as well as our business and results of operation. In particular, the margin on our services is impacted by the increase in our costs in providing those services, which is influenced by wage inflation in Argentina, as well as other factors. In June 2008, the INDEC published a new consumer price index, which has been criticized by economists and investors after its initial report found prices rising below expectations. These events have affected the credibility of the consumer price index published by the INDEC, as well as other indices published by the INDEC that use the consumer price index in their calculation, including the poverty index, the unemployment index and real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”). On November 23, 2010, the Argentine government consulted with the International Monetary Fund (the “IMF”) for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index, with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. During the first quarter of 2011, a team from the IMF started working in conjunction with the INDEC to create this index. Notwithstanding the foregoing, reports published by the IMF state that their staff also uses alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, which have shown inflation rates considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007, and the IMF has called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the quality of official data. In its meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF found that Argentina’s progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 had not been sufficient, and, as a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with the breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. On February 14, 2013, the Argentine government announced a new consumer price index called the Indice de Precios al Consumidor Nacional Urbano (the “IPCNU”), which was 21.7% for the year ended December 31, 2014. The IMF acknowledged the new index and indicated it will review the same to confirm that it satisfies IMF requirements. In addition, in February 2014, the INDEC released a new GDP index for 2013, equal to 3.0%, which differs from the GDP index originally released by the INDEC for the same period of 5.5%. If it is determined that it is necessary to unfavorably adjust the consumer price index and other INDEC indices, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. Argentina’s defaults with respect to the payment of its foreign debt could prevent the government and the private sector from accessing the international capital markets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, including our ability to obtain financing outside of Argentina. As of December 31, 2001, Argentina’s total public debt amounted to $144.5 billion. In December of 2001, Argentina defaulted on over $81.8 billion in external debt to bondholders. In addition, since 2002, Argentina suspended payments on over $15.7 billion in debt to multilateral financial institutions (such as the IMF and the “Paris Club” — an informal intergovernmental group of creditors from 19 different countries that convenes to renegotiate debts to sovereign creditors) and other financial institutions. In 2006, Argentina cancelled all of its outstanding debt with the IMF totalling approximately $9.5 billion, and through various exchange offers made to bondholders between 2004 and 2010, restructured over $74.4 billion of its defaulted debt. On September 2, 2008, pursuant to Decree No. 1,394/08, Argentina officially announced a decision to pay its outstanding debt to the Paris Club, which offer was accepted. As of September 30, 2013, Argentina’s total public debt (including amounts owed to the Paris Club) amounted to $201 billion and the amount owed specifically to the Paris Club, as of September 30, 2013, equaled $5.9 billion. On May 29, 2014, the Paris Club announced that it had reached an agreement to clear Argentina’s debt in arrears due to the Paris Club in the amount of $9.7 billion, as of April 30, 2014. The agreement provides for repayment of the debt within five years, including a minimum of $1.2 billion to be paid during May 2015 and an additional payment during May 2016. The foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies, including public utilities and bondholders that did not participate in the exchange offers described above, have filed claims in excess of $16 billion with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”) alleging that the emergency measures adopted by the government differ from the just and equal treatment dispositions set forth in several bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. As of December 31, 2011, the ICSID has ruled that the Argentine government must pay an amount of approximately $1 billion, plus interest and incurred expenses, in respect of such claims. Furthermore, in connection with the same matter, the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law has issued two judgments requiring the Argentine government to pay $240 million, plus interest and expenses, to these entities. In addition, on August 4, 2011, the ICSID held that it had jurisdiction to hear claims brought by 60,000 Italian holders of Argentine sovereign debt who did not participate in the exchange offers and filed a request for arbitration with the ICSID for a claim totalling $4.4 billion. The tribunal also issued a procedural order to examine how the proceedings were conducted and how the procedural calendar was developed. On July 11, 2013, the arbitration tribunal was constituted in accordance with ICSID convention. From August 9–13, 2013, certain ICSID judgment creditors, including Blue Ridge Investments L.L.C., CC-WB Holdings LLC, Vivendi Universal S.A., Compañía Aguas de Aconquija S.A., Azurix Corp. and NG-UN Holdings LLC, sent letters to the Argentine Ministry of Economy proposing settlement of their claims. On October 18, 2013, the Argentine Ministry of Economy issued Resolution No. 598/2013, which approved a form of a transactional agreement to be entered into with such creditors. The transactional agreement provides for a 25% reduction of the creditors’ claims and payment in kind through Argentine BODEN and Bonos de la Nación Argentina en Dólares Estadounidenses 7% 2017 . In addition, the creditors would subscribe for Argentine Bono Argentino de Ahorro para el Desarrollo Económico — Registrable in an amount equal to 10% of their claims. By entering into these transactional agreements, the creditors and the Argentine government will waive all of their respective claims in regard to any awards and any other judicial or administrative actions seeking to obtain recognition and enforcement of such awards. On March 20, 2014, the ICSID proceeding filed by Repsol S.A. on December 18, 2012 in connection with YPF’s expropriation was suspended pursuant to an agreement between Repsol and the Argentine government, which was ratified by the Argentine Congress on April 24, 2014. 20 On March 28, 2012, by way of enactment of Law No. 26,739, the Argentine Congress approved an amendment of the charter of the Argentine Central Bank (Banco Central de la República Argentina) that, among other things: •limits the availability of economic information (i.e. , expected rate of inflation, amount and composition of reserves and of the monetary base); •significantly increases the Argentine government’s access to financing from the Argentine Central Bank; •grants the board of directors of the Argentine Central Bank the discretion to determine the required level of reserves; •establishes that any reserves above the required level fixed by the board of directors constitute freely available reserves; and •provides that in addition to the payment of obligations with international financial institutions, the freely available reserves may now also be applied towards the payment of official bilateral external debt (such as the Paris Club). In litigation brought before the U.S. federal district court for the Southern District of New York, certain holders of Argentina’s bonds that did not participate in the exchange offers conducted in 2005 and 2010 have challenged Argentina’s decision to pay bondholders who agreed to participate in those exchange offers even as it refuses to pay the nonparticipating bondholders. Pursuant to an order dated February 23, 2012, as amended by an order dated November 21, 2012, based on the equal treatment provision under the defaulted debt, the district court granted an injunction requiring Argentina to pay holders of the defaulted debt as a precondition to making a single interest payment under the restructured debt. The injunction further required Argentina to pay into an escrow account over $1.3 billion prior to making the December 15 scheduled payment of the restructured debt. In its decision issued on October 26, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the “Second Circuit”) affirmed the U.S. federal district court’s ruling that Argentina’s actions violate contractual provisions in the Fiscal Agency Agreement under which the bonds were issued that require the issuer to treat bondholders equally. The Second Circuit’s decision also largely upheld injunctions in favor of the nonparticipating bondholders that the U.S. federal district court issued in February 2012 but stayed pending appeal. The injunctions bar Argentina from paying $3.41 billion that is due to the bondholders on the restructured debt that was issued to them in the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers unless it also makes arrangements to deposit $1.33 billion into escrow to pay the nonparticipating bondholders on the bonds held by them. In an order issued on November 21, 2012, the U.S. federal district court lifted its stay on those injunctions and, as per the Second Circuit’s prior request, clarified the injunction payment formula. However, on November 28, 2012, the Second Circuit granted a stay on the above injunctions and scheduled oral arguments by the parties for February 27, 2013. Following a hearing on March 29, 2013, Argentina submitted an alternative payment formula that includes two options. Under the first option, individual investors will receive par bonds due in 2013, plus cash payment for past-due interest and GDP-linked securities. Under the second option, institutional investors will receive discount bonds due in 2033, along with bonds due 2017 for past-due interest and GDP-linked securities. On April 19, 2013, the plaintiffs filed a response rejecting the Argentine offer. On June 24, 2013, Argentina filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the United States Supreme Court asking it to review the October 26, 2012 decision of the Second Circuit. On August 23, 2013, the Second Circuit affirmed the district court ruling of November 21, 2012 with respect to the injunction payment formula, but stayed enforcement of the injunctions pending resolution of Argentina’s petition before the Supreme Court. On September 20, 2013, Argentina passed Law No. 26,886, which approved a new exchange offer to those bondholders that did not participate in the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. On September 30, 2013, the Supreme Court decided not to include the review of the October 26, 2012 decision in its docket for the coming term. On February 17, 2014, Argentina filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court asking it to review the August 23, 2013 decision of the Second Circuit. On April 21, 2014, the Supreme Court held a hearing with the nonparticipating bondholders and Argentina. On June 16, 2014, the Supreme Court decided not to hear Argentina’s appeal on the August 23, 2013 decision of the Second Circuit. Subsequently, the District Court lifted the stay on enforcement of the injunction on June 18, 2014, and on June 26, 2014, it denied an additional request for a stay of the injunctions. Additionally, on June 23, 2014, the District Court appointed Daniel A. Pollack as Special Master to mediate settlement negotiations between Argentina and the litigating bondholders. On June 26, 2014, Argentina announced that it had deposited $539 million with the Bank of New York Mellon, the trustee which manages bond payments for Argentina’s main, not litigating, bondholders and, on June 27, 2014, Judge Thomas Griesa, the U.S. federal judge in charge of the case, issued a statement saying he would nullify any payment made to the main bondholders and order that the amounts corresponding to said payment remain deposited with The Bank of New York Mellon. The negotiations between Argentina and the litigating bondholders with the Special Master ended on July 30, 2014 without reaching an agreement. Since that date, Argentina entered into default vis-à-vis the bondholders that benefited from such judicial ruling. This resulted in a portion of Argentina’s sovereign debt being considered in “technical default,” upon which Standard & Poor’s reduced its credit rating on Argentina’s foreign-currency sovereign debt to “selective default”. On July 28 and August 4, 2014, Judge Griesa issued a one-time permission allowing the making of certain payments under the restructured bonds. On September 12, 2014, Law No. 26,984 was published in the Official Gazette establishing, inter alia , the removal of The Bank of New York Mellon as trustee under the 2005 and 2010 restructurings and its replacement by Nación Fideicomisos S.A. , an entity within the Banco de la Nación Argentina. Additionally, Law No. 26,984 sets forth that payments under the 2005 and 2010 restructurings shall be made in Argentina in a special account to be held by the new trustee in the Central Bank and, if requested by the bondholders of the restructured debt, Argentina shall launch a new exchange offer for bonds governed by Argentine and French law in exchange for those bonds affected by the judicial decisions referred to above. On September 29, 2014, Judge Griesa held Argentina in contempt of court for attempting to pay bondholders in defiance of his rulings, but declared that he would not issue sanctions until a later date. The appeal filed by Argentina against Judge Griesa’s resolution was denied in April 2015. 21 Certain investment fund holders of Argentine bonds governed by French law filed lawsuits against The Bank of New York Mellon in London for breach of its fiduciary duties as a result of not transferring the amounts deposited by Argentina on June 30, 2013. On February 13, 2015, London courts ruled that interest payments under euro-denominated Argentine bonds are governed by English law, but declined to order that the funds held by the Bank of New York Mellon be distributed to the bondholders. Argentina’s default with respect to the payment of its foreign debt, its delay in completing the debt restructuring process with creditors that did not participate in the related exchange offers, the aforementioned complaints filed against Argentina and the Supreme Court’s decision not to hear Argentina’s appeal and the declaration of contempt, could prevent the government from obtaining international private financing or receiving direct foreign investment as well as private sector companies in Argentina from accessing the international capital markets. Without access to international private financing, Argentina may not be able to finance its obligations, and financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available. Without access to direct foreign investment, the government may not have sufficient financial resources to foster economic growth. Our ability to obtain U.S. dollar-denominated financing has been adversely impacted by these factors. During the first half of 2011, we were able to obtain export lines of credit from our Argentine lenders in U.S. dollars at interest rates of 2 – 3% per year. Toward the end of 2011, the interest rates on our export lines from those lenders increased to 5 – 6% per year. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, it became increasingly difficult to obtain financing in U.S. dollars, and loans in local currencies carry significantly higher interest rates. As a result, we expect to incur higher financing costs in future periods, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The lack of financing available for Argentine companies may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, our ability to access capital and the market price of our common shares. The prospects for Argentine enterprises accessing financial markets are limited in terms of the amount of financing available and the conditions and costs of such financing. In addition to the default on the Argentine sovereign debt and the global economic crisis that have significantly limited the ability of Argentine enterprises to access international financial markets, in November 2008, the Argentine congress passed a law eliminating the private pension fund system and transferring all retirement and pension funds held by the pension fund administrators (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones , or “AFJPs”) to the National Social Security Administrative Office (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social). Because the AFJPs had been the major institutional investors in the Argentine capital markets, the nationalization of the pension fund system has led to a reduction of the liquidity available in the local Argentine capital markets. In addition, the Argentine government, through its assumption of the AFJP’s equity investments in a variety of the country’s main private companies, became a significant shareholder in such companies. The nationalization of the AFJPs has adversely affected investor confidence in Argentina, which may impact our ability to access the capital markets in the future. Lack of access to international or domestic financial markets could affect the projected capital expenditures for our operations in Argentina, which, in turn, may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and on the market price of our common shares. Argentine exchange controls on the acquisition of foreign currency and on transfers abroad and capital inflows have limited, and may continue to limit, the availability of international credit and access to capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of enterprises to retain or obtain foreign currency or make payments abroad. Although some of these restrictions were subsequently eased, in June 2005, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 616/2005, which established new controls on capital inflows that could result in reduced availability of international credit, including the requirement, subject to certain exceptions, that 30% of all funds remitted to Argentina remain deposited in a domestic financial institution for 365 days in a non-interest bearing account. In addition, since the second half of 2011, the Argentine government has increased certain controls on the incurrence of foreign currency-denominated indebtedness, the acquisition of foreign currency and foreign assets by local residents. For example, the Argentine Central Bank adopted regulations that (i) shortened the period for a borrower to convert foreign currency-denominated indebtedness into Argentine pesos, (ii) shortened a borrower’s window of access to the local foreign exchange market in connection with a prepayment of scheduled interest payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and (iii) suspended the ability of local residents to access the local exchange market for the acquisition of foreign currency. Furthermore, new AFIP regulations require that all foreign exchange transactions be registered with AFIP. In addition, the Argentine government may impose or increase exchange controls or transfer restrictions in the future in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Argentine peso. Moreover, legislative, judicial or administrative changes or interpretations may be forthcoming. Additional controls could have a negative effect on the ability of Argentine entities to access the international credit or capital markets, the Argentine economy and our financial condition and business. Restrictions on transfers of foreign currency and the repatriation of capital from Argentina may impair our ability to receive dividends and distributions from, and the proceeds of any sale of, our assets in Argentina. Argentine law currently permits the Argentine government to impose restrictions on the conversion of Argentine currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Argentina (including dividend payments) in circumstances where a serious imbalance develops in Argentina’s balance of payments or where there are reasons to foresee such an imbalance. Beginning in December 2001, the Argentine government implemented a number of monetary and foreign exchange control measures that included restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and on the transfer of funds abroad without prior approval by the Argentine Central Bank, some of which are still in effect. Among the restrictions that are still in effect are those relating to the repatriation of certain funds collected in Argentina by non-Argentine residents. 22 Although the transfer of funds abroad by local companies in order to pay annual dividends only to foreign shareholders, based on approved and fully audited financial statements, does not require formal approval by the Argentine Central Bank, the recent decrease in availability of U.S. dollars in Argentina has led the Argentine government to impose informal restrictions on certain local companies and individuals for purchasing foreign currency. These restrictions on foreign currency purchases started in October 2011 and tightened during 2012 and 2013. Informal restrictions may consist of de facto measures restricting local residents and companies from purchasing foreign currency through the Argentine Single Free Foreign Exchange Market (Mercado Único y Libre de Cambios , or “FX Market”) for the purpose of making payments abroad, such as dividends, capital reductions, and payment for importation of goods and services. For example, local banks may request, even when not expressly required by any regulation, the prior opinion of the Argentine Central Bank before executing any specific foreign exchange transaction. For more information, please see “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulatory Overview — Foreign Exchange Controls.” In addition, other exchange controls could impair or prevent the conversion of anticipated dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of equity holdings in Argentina, as the case may be, from Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. These restrictions and controls could interfere with the ability of our Argentine subsidiaries to make distributions in U.S. dollars to us and thus our ability to pay dividends in the future. The domestic revenues of our Argentine subsidiaries (excluding intercompany revenues to other Globant subsidiaries, which are eliminated in consolidation) were $4.1 million in 2014, $5.5 million in 2013 and $4.9 million in 2012, representing 2.1%, 14.4% and 3.8% of our annual consolidated revenues, respectively. Also, if payments cannot be made in U.S. dollars abroad, the repatriation of any funds collected by foreign investors in Argentine pesos in Argentina may be subject to restrictions. As from October 28, 2011, in order for a non-Argentine investor to be granted access to the FX Market to purchase foreign currency with Argentine pesos received in Argentina as a result of a stock sale, capital reduction or liquidation of an Argentine company, it is a requirement that the funds originally used for such investment, disbursement or capital contribution, as applicable, were settled through the FX Market. This requirement applies only to capital contributions to local companies or foreign currency purchases of the stock of an Argentine company made as from October 28, 2011 that qualify as “foreign direct investments” (i.e., represent at least 10% of the Argentine company’s capital stock). In the case of equity positions below the 10% threshold, repatriation is subject to a monthly threshold of $0.5 million. Transfers in excess of that monthly threshold are subject to prior approval by the Argentine Central Bank. The Argentine government could adopt further restrictive measures in the future. If that were the case, a foreign shareholder, such as ourselves, may be prevented from converting the Argentine pesos it receives in Argentina into U.S. dollars. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when we cannot convert the foreign currency, we may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution or sale proceeds. These restrictions and requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations, or the market price of our common shares. Argentina’s regulations on proceeds from the export of services increase our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Argentine peso, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common shares. The imposition in the future of additional regulations on proceeds collected outside Argentina for services rendered to non-Argentine residents or of export duties and controls could also have an adverse effect on us. Argentine law, including Communication “A” 5264 of the Argentine Central Bank, as amended, requires Argentine residents to transfer the foreign currency proceeds received for services rendered to non-Argentine residents into a local account with a domestic financial institution and to convert those proceeds into Argentine pesos through the FX Market, which is administered by the Argentine Central Bank within 15 business days from the date the foreign currency proceeds are collected. Argentine law does not require exporters of services to be paid only in foreign currency. The applicable regulations do not prohibit or regulate the receipt of in-kind payments by such exporters. During 2013, our U.S. subsidiary agreed to make payment for a portion of the services provided by our Argentine subsidiaries by delivery of U.S. dollar-denominated BODEN purchased in the U.S. debt markets (in U.S. dollars). The BODEN were then delivered to our Argentine subsidiaries as payment for a portion of the services rendered and, after being held by our Argentine subsidiaries for between, on average, 10 to 30 days, were sold in the Argentine market for Argentine pesos. Because the fair value of the BODEN based on the quoted Argentine peso price in the Argentine markets during the year ended December 31, 2013 was higher than the quoted U.S. dollar price for the BODEN in the U.S. debt markets (in U.S. dollars) converted at the official exchange rate prevailing in Argentina (which is the rate used to convert transactions in foreign currency into our Argentine subsidiaries’ functional currency), we recognized a gain when remeasuring the fair value (expressed in Argentine pesos) of the BODEN into U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate prevailing in Argentina. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we did not participate in any BODEN transactions in connection with payment by our U.S. subsidiary for services provided by our Argentine subsidiaries. If in the future we decide to resume those transactions, we cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not restrict exporters from receiving in-kind payment, require them to repatriate those payments received through the FX Market, or make any other legislative, judicial, or administrative changes or interpretations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See note 3.18.1 to our audited consolidated financial statements, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — 2014 Compared to 2013,” “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — 2013 Compared to 2012” and “Certain Income Statement Line Items — Gain on Transaction with Bonds.” 23 Transactions with bonds acquired as proceeds from the capitalization of our Argentine subsidiaries increase our exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Argentine peso, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common shares. The imposition in the future of additional regulations on proceeds collected outside Argentina for capitalization of our Argentine subsidiaries could also have an adverse effect on us. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our Argentine subsidiaries, through cash received from capital contributions, acquired Argentine sovereign bonds, including BODEN and Bonos Argentinos (“BONAR”), in the U.S. market denominated in U.S. dollars. After acquiring these bonds and after holding them for a certain period of time, our Argentine subsidiaries sold those bonds in the Argentine market. The fair value of these bonds in the Argentine market (in Argentine pesos) during the year ended December 31, 2014 was higher than its quoted price in the U.S. market (in U.S dollars) converted at the official exchange rate prevailing in Argentina, which is the rate used to convert these transactions in foreign currency into our Argentine subsidiaries’ functional currency, thus, as a result, we recognized a gain when remeasuring the fair value of the bonds in Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate prevailing in Argentina. We cannot assure you that the quoted price of the BONAR in Argentine pesos in the Argentine markets will continue to be higher than the quoted price in the U.S. debt markets in U.S. dollars converted at the official exchange rate prevailing in Argentina. Although as of the date of this annual report, we are not obliged to settle proceeds received from capitalizations abroad through the FX Market, we cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not require Argentine companies to repatriate such proceeds through the FX Market, or make any other legislative, judicial, or administrative changes or interpretations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See note 3.18 to our audited consolidated financial statements, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — 2014 Compared to 2013”, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — 2013 Compared to 2012” and “Certain Income Statement Line Items — Gain on Transaction with Bonds.” The Argentine government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to increase wages and provide specified benefits to employees, and may do so again in the future. Argentine employers, both in the public and private sectors, have experienced significant pressure from their employees and labor organizations to increase wages and to provide additional employee benefits. Due to the high levels of inflation, employees and labor organizations are demanding significant wage increases. In August 2012, the Argentine government established a 25% increase in minimum monthly salary to 2,875 Argentine pesos, effective as of February 2013. The Argentine government increased the minimum salary to 3,300 Argentine pesos in August 2013, to 3,600 Argentine pesos in January 2014, to 4,400 Argentine pesos in September 2014 and to 4,716 Argentine pesos in January 2015. Due to high levels of inflation, employers in both the public and private sectors are experiencing significant pressure from unions and their employees to further increase salaries. During the year ended December 31, 2014, various unions have agreed with employers’ associations on salary increases between 25% and 30%. Due to the acceleration of inflation, it is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future. If as a result of such measures future salary increases in Argentine peso exceed the pace of the devaluation of the Argentine peso, they could have a material and adverse effect on our expenses and business, results of operations and financial condition and, thus, on the trading prices for our common shares. Our operating cash flows may be adversely affected if there is a delay in obtaining reimbursement of value-added tax credits from AFIP. In 2014, our Argentine operating subsidiary IAFH Global S.A. has recognized an aggregate of $5.2 million in value-added tax credits. These tax credits may be monetized by way of cash reimbursement from AFIP. Obtaining this cash reimbursement requires submission of a written request to AFIP, which is subject to its approval. In the event that AFIP delays its approval of the request for reimbursement of these value-added tax credits, our ability to monetize the value of those credits would be delayed, which could adversely affect the timing of our cash flows from operations. Changes in Argentine tax laws may adversely affect the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows. In 2012, a proposal made by the Argentine tax authorities to amend various aspects of the Argentine income tax law was made public. Pursuant to the proposed bill, among other things, deductible losses (that can be deducted within the next five years) would be limited to 30% of the income earned in each fiscal year; capital gains obtained by foreign residents from the sale, exchange or disposition of securities would be subject to income tax; and payments made to individuals or entities located or incorporated in countries with low or no taxation would be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 35% and would not be deductible. As of the date of this annual report, this proposal has not yet been introduced in the Argentine Congress. If this bill is passed into law, the limitations on deductions may adversely affect the results of our Argentine subsidiaries’ operations. 24 In addition, in 2012, the Argentine government terminated the application of the treaties for the avoidance of double taxation that were in force with the Republic of Chile and Spain. Pursuant to these treaties, shares and other equity interests in local companies owned by Chilean or Spanish residents enjoyed a preferential tax treatment by which taxes on personal assets were not applicable. The decision to denounce and therefore terminate the above-mentioned taxation treaties was published in the Argentine Official Gazette (Boletín Oficial de la República Argentina) on July 13 and July 16, 2012. In accordance with the denouncement provisions set forth in both treaties, in most cases, the treaties ceased to be in effect as of January 1, 2013, and personal assets of certain Chilean and Spanish residents became subject to taxation. The termination of the treaty with Spain resulted in the imposition of Argentine withholding tax at a rate of 35%, effective January 1, 2013, on the distribution of dividends by our Argentine subsidiaries to our Spanish subsidiary, Spain Holdco, in excess of their taxable income accumulated by the end of the fiscal year immediately prior to the distribution of such dividends. In addition, interest paid by our Argentine subsidiaries on any indebtedness owed to Spain Holdco became subject to Argentine withholding tax at that same rate. In February 2013, the Spanish cabinet approved the execution of a new double-taxation treaty with Argentina. On November 27, 2013, the Argentine Congress approved the aforementioned treaty, which was published in the Argentine Official Gazette on December 18, 2013. This new treaty with Spain entered into force on December 23, 2013. This treaty replaces the previous double-taxation treaty between Argentina and Spain that was terminated on July 16, 2012. On September 23, 2013, Argentine Law No. 26,893 amending the income tax law was enacted. According to the amendments, the distribution of dividends by Argentine companies is subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% unless dividends are distributed to Argentine corporate entities, and the sale, exchange or disposition of shares and other securities not trading in, or listed on, capital markets and securities exchanges is subject to withholding tax at a rate of 15% when gains are recognized by any Argentine resident individual or foreign beneficiary. The distribution of dividends by our Argentine subsidiaries to Spain Holdco is subject to this withholding tax. These dividend distributions are treated as income tax credits for Spain Holdco. As a holding company, Spain Holdco does not generate significant revenues and may be unable to recover the tax credits generated by the distributions, which might then need to be written off. These amendments may adversely affect the results of our operations. Argentina’s economic recovery since the 2001 – 2002 economic crisis has undergone a significant slowdown, and any further decline in Argentina’s rate of recovery could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although general economic conditions in Argentina have recovered significantly since the 2001 – 2002 economic crisis, an ongoing slowdown suggests uncertainty as to whether the growth experienced during this period is sustainable. This is mainly because the economic growth was initially dependent on a significant devaluation of the Argentine peso, excess production capacity resulting from a long period of deep recession and high commodity prices. Furthermore, the economy has suffered a sustained erosion of direct investment and capital investment. The global economic crisis of 2008 led to a sudden economic decline in Argentina during 2009, accompanied by political and social unrest, inflationary and Argentine peso depreciation pressures and a lack of consumer and investor confidence. According to the INDEC, Argentina’s real GDP decreased by 0.8% in the year ended December 31, 2014 and grew by 3.0% in 2013, 1.9% in 2012, 8.9% in 2011, 9.2% in 2010, 0.9% in 2009 and 6.8% in 2008. There is uncertainty as to whether Argentina will suffer a further decline in growth rate or as to the timing of more robust growth or even be able to maintain the current level of economic growth. Economic conditions in Argentina during 2012, 2013 and 2014 have included increased inflation, continued demand for wage increases, a rising fiscal deficit, the legally required repayment of Argentina’s foreign debt in 2012 and a decrease in commercial growth. In addition, beginning in the second half of 2011, an increase in capital flight from Argentina has caused the Argentine government to strengthen its foreign exchange controls and eliminate subsidies to the private sector. During 2013 and 2014, foreign exchange restrictions have tightened and the government has imposed price controls on certain goods to control inflation. A decline in international demand for Argentine products, a lack of stability and competitiveness of the Argentine peso against other currencies, a decline in confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors, a higher rate of inflation and future political uncertainties, among other factors, may affect the development of the Argentine economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to multiple provincial and municipal legislation and regulations could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Argentina is a federal country with 23 provinces and one autonomous city (Buenos Aires), each of which, under the Argentine national constitution, has full power to enact legislation concerning taxes and other matters. Likewise, within each province, municipal governments have broad powers to regulate such matters. Due to the fact that our delivery centers are located in multiple provinces, we are also subject to multiple provincial and municipal legislation and regulations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effects from this, future developments in provincial and municipal legislation concerning taxes, provincial regulations or other matters may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may be highly volatile. The market price of our common shares may be volatile and may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: 25 •the failure of financial analysts to cover our common shares or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; •changes in financial estimates by financial analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any of these estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any financial analysts that elect to follow our common shares or the shares of our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; •future sales of our common shares; and •investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we operate. In addition, the equity markets in general have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies’ securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Holders of our common shares may experience losses due to increased volatility in the U.S. capital markets. The U.S. capital markets have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or results of operations of those companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, as well as volatility in international capital markets, may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. In addition, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (“S&P”) lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S. government debt obligations from AAA to AA+. On November 28, 2011, Fitch Ratings downgraded its U.S. Government rating outlook to negative and stated that a downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating would occur without a credible plan in place by 2013 to reduce the U.S. Government's deficit. These actions initially have had an adverse effect on capital markets in the United States and elsewhere, contributing to volatility and decreases in prices of many securities trading on the U.S. national exchanges, such as the NYSE. Further downgrades to the U.S. Government's sovereign credit rating by any rating agency, as well as negative changes to the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. Government-related obligations, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any volatility in the capital markets in the United States or in other developed countries, whether resulting from a downgrade of the sovereign credit rating of U.S. debt obligations or otherwise, may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. We may be classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”), which may result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. investors. We believe that we will not be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year and do not expect to become one in the foreseeable future. However, because PFIC status depends upon the composition of our income and assets and the market value of our assets (including, among others, less than 25% owned equity investments) from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. Because we have valued goodwill based on the market value of our equity, a decrease in the price of our common shares may also result in our becoming a PFIC. The composition of our income and our assets will also be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash. Under circumstances where the cash is not deployed for active purposes, our risk of becoming a PFIC may increase. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held common shares, certain adverse tax consequences could apply to such U.S. investor. See “Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive foreign investment company rules.” We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain another credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: •investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of technology services companies; •conditions of the U.S. capital markets and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; 26 •our future results of operations and financial condition; •government regulation of foreign investment in the United States, Europe, and Latin America; and •global economic, political and other conditions in jurisdictions in which we do business. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and principal shareholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions or adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 55.70% of our outstanding common shares and own options that enable them to own, in the aggregate, approximately 0.69% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders continue to have substantial control over us and be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant influence over our management and policies. This concentration of influence could be disadvantageous to other shareholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal shareholders. For example, our officers, directors and principal shareholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other shareholders. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with principal shareholders. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the increased strain on our resources from complying with the reporting, disclosure, and other requirements applicable to public companies in the United States promulgated by the U.S. government, NYSE or other relevant regulatory authority. Compliance with existing, new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards include those relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NYSE listing guidelines. These laws, regulations and guidelines may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. In particular, our efforts to comply with certain sections of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) and the related regulations regarding required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and, when we cease being an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Act and become subject to Section 404(b), our external auditor’s audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect the regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. Existing, new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for our company to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members and senior management could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and senior management, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business and common share price. As a public company, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which will require management assessments and certifications of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In addition, when we cease being an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Act and become subject to Section 404(b), our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting but may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of remediation actions and testing or their effect on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent auditors (when we become subject to Section 404(b)) are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common shares. 27 Our exemption as a “foreign private issuer” from certain rules under the U.S. securities laws may result in less information about us being available to investors than for U.S. companies, which may result in our common shares being less attractive to investors. As a “foreign private issuer” in the United States. we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than U.S. companies. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our common shares. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as companies that are not foreign private issuers whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. As a result, our shareholders may not have access to information they deem important, which may result in our common shares being less attactive to investors. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we decide to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common shares could be less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Act. We are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. In addition, we will not be subject to certain requirements of Section 404 including the additional level of review of our internal controls over financial reporting as may occur when outside auditors attest as to our those controls over financial reporting. As a result, our shareholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We will remain an emerging growth company until the end of the fiscal year 2019, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances. If the market value of our common shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time and we have been subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for at least 12 months and have filed at least one annual report pursuant to such reporting requirements or if our revenues exceed $1 billion in a fiscal year, we would cease to be “emerging growth company” as of December 31 of that year. We would also cease to be an “emerging growth company” on the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period. If we take advantage of any of these exemptions, investors may find our common shares less attractive as a result, which, in turn, could lead to a less active trading market for our common shares and volatility in our share price. We do not plan to declare dividends, and our ability to do so will be affected by restrictions under Luxembourg law. We have not declared dividends in the past and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. In addition, both our articles of association and the Luxembourg law of August 10, 1915 on commercial companies as amended from time to time (loi du 10 août 1915 sur les sociétés commerciales telle que modifiée) (“Luxembourg Corporate Law”) require a general meeting of shareholders to approve any dividend distribution except as set forth below. Our ability to declare dividends under Luxembourg law is subject to the availability of distributable earnings or available reserves, including share premium. Moreover, if we declare dividends in the future, we may not be able to pay them more frequently than annually. As permitted by Luxembourg Corporate Law, our articles of association authorize the declaration of dividends more frequently than annually by our board of directors in the form of interim dividends so long as the amount of such interim dividends does not exceed total net income made since the end of the last financial year for which the annual accounts have been approved, plus any net income carried forward and sums drawn from reserves available for this purpose, less the aggregate of the prior year’s accumulated losses, the amounts to be set aside for the reserves required by law or by our articles of association for the prior year, and the estimated tax due on such earnings. We are a holding company and depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments, which they may not be able to do. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations. We have no relevant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by covenants in our or their financing agreements or by the law of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to distribute dividends. We do not intend to seek to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. See “— Risks Related to Operating in Latin America and Argentina — Argentina — Restrictions on transfers of foreign currency and the repatriation of capital from Argentina may impair our ability to receive dividends and distributions from, and the proceeds of any sale of, our assets in Argentina.” 28 Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation, which could adversely impact trading in our common shares and our ability to conduct equity financings. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and the laws of Luxembourg, including the laws governing joint stock companies. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our directors and officers under Luxembourg law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. In addition, Luxembourg law governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our directors and officers or our principal shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Neither our articles of association nor Luxembourg law provides for appraisal rights for dissenting shareholders in certain extraordinary corporate transactions that may otherwise be available to shareholders under certain U.S. state laws. As a result of these differences, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. issuer. Holders of our common shares may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive subscription rights and may suffer dilution of their shareholding in the event of future common share issuances. Under Luxembourg Corporate Law, our shareholders benefit from a pre-emptive subscription right on the issuance of common shares for cash consideration. However, in accordance with Luxembourg law, our articles of association authorize our board of directors to suppress, waive or limit any pre-emptive subscription rights of shareholders provided by Luxembourg law to the extent our board deems such suppression, waiver or limitation advisable for any issuance or issuances of common shares within the scope of our authorized share capital. Such common shares may be issued above, at or below market value as well as by way of incorporation of available reserves (including a premium). This authorization is valid from the date of the effectiveness of the relevant decision of the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 18, 2014 and ends on October 7, 2019. In addition, a shareholder may not be able to exercise the shareholder’s pre-emptive right on a timely basis or at all, unless the shareholder complies with Luxembourg Corporate Law and applicable laws in the jurisdiction in which the shareholder is resident, particularly in the United States. As a result, the shareholding of such shareholders may be materially diluted in the event common shares are issued in the future. Moreover, in the case of an increase in capital by a contribution in kind, no pre-emptive rights of the existing shareholders exist. We are organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments or bring original actions against us or our executive officers and directors in the United States. We are organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The majority of our assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, the majority of our directors and officers and some experts named in this annual report reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. Investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. Furthermore, Luxembourg law does not recognize a shareholder’s right to bring a derivative action on behalf of the company except in limited cases. As there is no treaty in force on the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, courts in Luxembourg will not automatically recognize and enforce a final judgment rendered by a U.S. court. A valid judgment in civil or commercial matters obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States may be entered and enforced through a court of competent jurisdiction in Luxembourg, subject to compliance with the enforcement procedures (exequatur). The enforceability in Luxembourg courts of judgments rendered by U.S. courts will be subject prior any enforcement in Luxembourg to the procedure and the conditions set forth in the Luxembourg procedural code, which conditions may include the following as of the date of this annual report (which may change): •the judgment of the U.S. court is final and enforceable (exécutoire) in the United States; •the U.S. court had jurisdiction over the subject matter leading to the judgment (that is, its jurisdiction was in compliance both with Luxembourg private international law rules and with the applicable domestic U.S. federal or state jurisdictional rules); •the U.S. court has applied to the dispute the substantive law that would have been applied by Luxembourg courts; •the judgment was granted following proceedings where the counterparty had the opportunity to appear and, if it appeared, to present a defense, and the decision of the foreign court must not have been obtained by fraud, but in compliance with the rights of the defendant; 29 •the U.S. court has acted in accordance with its own procedural laws; •the judgment of the U.S. court does not contravene Luxembourg international public policy; and •the U.S. court proceedings were not of a criminal or tax nature. Under our articles of association and also pursuant to separate indemnification agreements, we indemnify our directors for and hold them harmless against all claims, actions, suits or proceedings brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. The rights and obligations among or between us and any of our current or former directors and officers are generally governed by the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and subject to the jurisdiction of the Luxembourg courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities listed above. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. federal or state securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside Luxembourg more difficult to enforce against our assets in Luxembourg or jurisdictions that would apply Luxembourg law. Luxembourg insolvency laws may offer our shareholders less protection than they would have under U.S. insolvency laws. As a company organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and with its registered office in Luxembourg, we are subject to Luxembourg insolvency laws in the event any insolvency proceedings are initiated against us including, among other things, Council Regulation (EC) No. 1346/2000 of May 29, 2000 on insolvency proceedings. Should courts in another European country determine that the insolvency laws of that country apply to us in accordance with and subject to such EU regulations, the courts in that country could have jurisdiction over the insolvency proceedings initiated against us. Insolvency laws in Luxembourg or the relevant other European country, if any, may offer our shareholders less protection than they would have under U.S. insolvency laws and make it more difficult for them to recover the amount they could expect to recover in a liquidation under U.S. insolvency laws. 