Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Report. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, we might not be able to make distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on our common units. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay any distributions to our common unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay distributions on a quarterly basis or otherwise. The board of directors of the general partner may at any time, for any reason, change our cash distribution policy or decide not to make any distribution. The amount of cash we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which is directly dependent upon the margins we generate. Please see "— The price volatility of crude oil and other feedstocks, refined products and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our ability to pay distributions to unitholders" below. In addition, as discussed below, the amount of cash we have to distribute each quarter under our general partner's current distribution policy will be reduced by (i) maintenance and certain environmental capital expenditures, (ii) payments in respect of debt service and other contractual obligations, and (iii) increases in reserves for future operating or capital needs that our general partner deems necessary or appropriate. 21 Table of Contents The price volatility of crude oil and other feedstocks, refined products and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between refined product prices and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices tightens, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors including fluctuations in prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products. Continued future volatility in refining industry margins may cause a decline in our results of operations, since the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices may decrease below the amount needed for us to generate net cash flow sufficient for our needs. Although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil generally results in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there is normally a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our results of operations therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, could have a significant negative impact on our earnings, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to unitholders. Our profitability is also impacted by the ability to purchase crude oil at a discount to benchmark crude oils, such as WTI, as we do not produce any crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. Crude oil differentials can fluctuate significantly based upon overall economic and crude oil market conditions. Declines in crude oil differentials can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. For example, infrastructure and logistical improvements could result in a reduction of the WTI-Brent differential that has recently provided us with increased profitability. In addition, our purchases of crude oil, although based on WTI prices, have historically been at a discount to WTI because of our proximity to the sources, existing logistics infrastructure and quality differences. Any change in the sources of our crude oil, infrastructure or logistical improvements or quality differences could result in a reduction of our historical discount to WTI and may result in a reduction of our cost advantage. Refining margins are also impacted by domestic and global refining capacity. Downturns in the economy reduce the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, generate excess capacity. In addition, the expansion and construction of refineries domestically and globally can increase refined fuel production capacity. Excess capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. During 2011 and 2012, favorable crack spreads and access to a variety of price-advantaged crude oils resulted in higher Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow generation that was greater than usual. There can be no assurance that these favorable conditions will continue and, in fact, crack spreads, refining margins and crude oil prices could decline, possibly materially, at any time. In particular, Enbridge Inc.'s purchase of 50% of the Seaway crude oil pipeline and the recent reversal of the pipeline to make it flow from Cushing to the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Seaway capacity expansion project may contribute to the decline of such favorable conditions by providing mid-continent producers with the ability to transport crude oil to Gulf Coast refiners in an economic manner. Crude oil began flowing through the Seaway Pipeline from Cushing to the Gulf Coast in May 2012, and an expansion project increasing total capacity from 150,000 bpd to 400,000 bpd was completed in January 2013. Moreover, the planned construction of a loop (twin) of the Seaway Pipeline, a new pipeline designed to parallel the existing right-of-way from Cushing to the Gulf Coast, is expected to more than double Seaway's capacity to 850,000 bpd by mid-2014. A significant deterioration of the current favorable conditions would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. 22 Table of Contents Volatile prices for natural gas and electricity also affect our manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may be affected by non-cash items. For example, we may have working capital changes as well as extraordinary capital expenditures and major maintenance expenses in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Capital Spending." While these items may not affect our profitability in a quarter, they would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution with respect to such quarter. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we report losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report net income. The amount of our quarterly cash distributions, if any, will vary significantly both quarterly and annually and will be directly dependent on the performance of our business which is volatile and seasonal. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. Historically, our business performance has been volatile and seasonal. For instance, our results of operations for the second and third quarters are generally higher than the first and fourth quarters, as demand for gasoline products increases due to higher highway traffic and road construction work during the summer months, and demand for diesel fuel decreases somewhat due to decreased agricultural activity. We expect that our future business performance will be more volatile and seasonal, and that our cash flows will be less stable, than the business performance and cash flows of most publicly traded partnerships. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. Because our quarterly distributions will significantly correlate to the cash we generate each quarter after payment of our fixed and variable expenses, future quarterly distributions paid to our unitholders will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be zero. The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion, including in such a manner that would result in an elimination of cash distributions regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. Our partnership agreement does not require us to make any distributions at all. Our general partner's current policy is to distribute an amount equal to all of the available cash we generate each quarter to unitholders of record on a pro rata basis. However, the board of directors of our general partner may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to make distributions for one or more quarters regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. Our partnership agreement does not require us to make any distributions at all. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. 23 Table of Contents Our refining business faces operating hazards and interruptions, including unplanned maintenance or downtime. We could face potentially significant costs to the extent these hazards or interruptions cause a material decline in production and are not fully covered by our existing insurance coverage. Insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so, may change the coverage provided or may substantially increase premiums in the future. Our operations are subject to significant operating hazards and interruptions. If our refineries or logistics assets experience a major accident or fire, are damaged by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster, or are otherwise forced to significantly curtail their operations or shut down, we could incur significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Operations at either or both of our refineries could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are not within our control, such as: •unplanned maintenance or catastrophic events such as a major accident or fire, damage by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster; •labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; •environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel the cessation of all or a portion of the operations; •state and federal agencies changing interpretations and enforcement of historical environmental rules and regulations; and •increasingly stringent environmental regulations. The magnitude of the effect on us of any shutdown will depend on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the plant operations affected by the shutdown. Our refineries require a planned maintenance turnaround every four to five years for each unit. A major accident, fire, flood, or other event could damage our facilities or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life. For example, the flood that occurred during the weekend of June 30, 2007 shut down our Coffeyville refinery for seven weeks and required significant expenditures to repair damaged equipment. In addition, our Coffeyville refinery experienced an equipment malfunction and small fire in connection with its fluid catalytic cracking unit on December 28, 2010, which led to reduced crude oil throughput for approximately one month and required significant expenditures to repair. Similarly, the Wynnewood refinery experienced a small explosion and fire in its hydrocracker process unit due to metal failure in December 2010. In addition, on September 28, 2012, a boiler explosion occurred at the Wynnewood refinery, fatally injuring two employees. We have completed an internal investigation into the cause of the boiler explosion, which occurred as operators were restarting a boiler that had been temporarily shut down as part of the refinery's turnaround process. Damage at the refinery was limited to the boiler. This matter is currently under investigation by OSHA and Oklahoma Department of Labor ("ODL"), which could impose penalties if they determine that a violation of OSHA standards has occurred. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our net income and cash flows during the period of time that any of our units is not operating. Any unscheduled future downtime could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we experience significant property damage, business interruption, environmental claims or other liabilities, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent the damages or claims exceed the amount of valid and collectible insurance available to us. Our property and business interruption insurance policies that cover the Coffeyville refinery have a $1.25 billion limit, with a $2.5 million deductible for physical damage and a 45- to 60-day waiting period (depending on the insurance carrier) before losses resulting from business interruptions are recoverable. We are fully 24 Table of Contents exposed to all losses in excess of the applicable limits and sub-limits and for losses due to business interruptions of fewer than 45 to 60 days. Our Wynnewood refinery, effective November 1, 2012, is insured with a $1.0 billion limit, a $10.0 million property damage deductible and a 75 days waiting period deductible for business interruption. The property and business interruption insurance policies insuring our Coffeyville and Wynnewood assets contain various sub-limits, exclusions, and conditions that could have a material adverse impact on the insurance indemnification of any particular catastrophic loss occurrence. For example, our current property policy contains varying specific sub-limits of $128.5 million (for Coffeyville assets) and $115.3 million (for Wynnewood assets) for damage caused by flooding. Insurance policy language and terms maintained by us are generally consistent with standards for the energy industry. The insurance market for the energy industry is highly specialized with a finite aggregate capacity of insurance. It is currently not feasible to purchase insurance limits up to the maximum foreseeable loss occurrence due to insurance capacity constraints. Our insurance program is renewed annually, and our ability to maintain current levels of insurance is dependent on the conditions and financial stability of the commercial insurance markets serving our industry. Factors that impact insurance cost and availability include, but are not limited to: industry-wide losses, natural disasters, specific losses incurred by us, and the investment returns earned by the insurance industry. The energy insurance market underwrites many refineries having coastal hurricane risk exposure and offshore platforms, thus a significant hurricane occurrence could impact a number of refineries and have a catastrophic impact on the financial results of the entire insurance and reinsurance market serving our industry. If the supply of commercial insurance is curtailed due to highly adverse financial results we may not be able to continue our present limits of insurance coverage, or obtain sufficient insurance capacity to adequately insure our risks for property damage or business interruption. If we are required to obtain our crude oil supply without the benefit of a crude oil supply agreement, our exposure to the risks associated with volatile crude oil prices may increase and our liquidity may be reduced. Since December 31, 2009, we have obtained substantially all of our crude oil supply for the Coffeyville refinery, other than the crude oil we gather, through the Vitol Agreement. The Vitol Agreement was amended and restated on August 31, 2012 to include the provision of crude oil intermediation services to our Wynnewood refinery. The agreement, whose initial term expires on December 31, 2014, minimizes the amount of in-transit inventory and mitigates crude oil pricing risks by ensuring pricing takes place close to the time when the crude oil is refined and the yielded products are sold. If we were required to obtain our crude oil supply without the benefit of a supply intermediation agreement, our exposure to crude oil pricing risks may increase, despite any hedging activity in which we may engage, and our liquidity would be negatively impacted due to increased inventory and the negative impact of market volatility. Disruption of our ability to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil could reduce our liquidity and increase our costs. For the Coffeyville refinery, in addition to the crude oil we gather locally in Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Nebraska, we purchased an additional 70,000 to 75,000 bpd of crude oil to be refined into liquid fuels in 2012. Although the Wynnewood refinery has historically acquired most of its crude oil from Texas and Oklahoma, it also purchases crude oil from other regions. Coffeyville obtains a portion of its non-gathered crude oil, approximately 17% in 2012, from foreign sources and Wynnewood obtained approximately 7% of its non-gathered crude oil from foreign sources as well. The majority of these foreign sourced crude oil barrels were derived from Canada. The actual amount of foreign crude oil we purchase is dependent on market conditions and will vary from year to year. We are subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with foreign 25 Table of Contents suppliers. Disruption of production in any of these regions for any reason could have a material impact on other regions and our business and ability to make distributions. In the event that one or more of our traditional suppliers becomes unavailable to us, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil, or we may only be able to obtain our crude oil supply at unfavorable prices. As a result, we may experience a reduction in our liquidity and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our access to the pipelines on which we rely for the supply of our crude oil and the distribution of our products is interrupted, our inventory and costs may increase and we may be unable to efficiently distribute our products. If one of the pipelines on which either of the Coffeyville or Wynnewood refineries relies for supply of crude oil becomes inoperative, we would be required to obtain crude oil through alternative pipelines or from additional tanker trucks, which could increase our costs and result in lower production levels and profitability. Similarly, if a major refined fuels pipeline becomes inoperative, we would be required to keep refined fuels in inventory or supply refined fuels to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by additional tanker trucks, which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. The geographic concentration of our refineries and related assets creates an exposure to the risks of the local economy and other local adverse conditions. The location of our refineries also creates the risk of increased transportation costs should the supply/demand balance change in our region such that regional supply exceeds regional demand for refined products. As our refineries are both located in the southern portion of Group 3 of the PADD II region, we primarily market our refined products in a relatively limited geographic area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect our operating area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population, increased supply of refined products from competitors and reductions in the supply of crude oil. Should the supply/demand balance shift in our region as a result of changes in the local economy, an increase in refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply in the region exceeding demand, we may have to deliver refined products to customers outside of the region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any. If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA's Renewable Fuels Standard mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has promulgated the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which requires refiners to blend "renewable fuels," such as ethanol, with their petroleum fuels or purchase renewable energy credits, known as RINs, in lieu of blending. Under the RFS, the volume of renewable fuels refineries like us are obligated to blend into their finished petroleum products increases annually over time until 2022. Beginning in 2011, our Coffeyville refinery was required to blend renewable fuels into its gasoline and diesel fuel or purchase RINs in lieu of blending. Our Wynnewood refinery is required to comply beginning in 2013. We currently purchase RINs for some fuel categories on the open market, as well as waiver credits for cellulosic biofuels from the EPA, in order to comply with the RFS. Existing laws or regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum products may increase. In the future, we may be required to purchase additional RINs on the open market and waiver credits from EPA in order to comply with the RFS. Recently the price of RINs has been extremely volatile with pricing increases. We cannot 26 Table of Contents predict the future prices of RINs or waiver credits, but the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINs and waiver credits could likely be material. Additionally, because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refineries' product pool, potentially resulting in lower earning and materially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions. If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with RFS on to our customers, our profits would be significantly lower. Moreover, if sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA's RFS mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition, both within and outside of our industry. Competitors who produce their own supply of crude oil or other feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial resources than we do may have a competitive advantage over us. The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to both crude oil and other feedstock supply and refined product markets. We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors within and outside of our industry, which could result in reduced profitability. We compete with numerous other companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. We do not have any long-term arrangements (those exceeding more than a twelve-month period) for much of our output. Many of our competitors obtain significant portions of their crude oil and other feedstocks from company-owned production and have extensive retail outlets. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets with brand-name recognition are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. A number of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than us. These competitors may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all aspects of the refining industry. An expansion or upgrade of our competitors' facilities, price volatility, international political and economic developments and other factors are likely to continue to play an important role in refining industry economics and may add additional competitive pressure on us. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. There are presently significant governmental incentives and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the United States. The more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental incentives or regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the negative impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility. As of the date of this Report, we had $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5% senior notes due 2022 outstanding and availability of up to $400.0 million under our Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility (as defined below) and up to $150.0 million under the intercompany credit facility (as defined below). In the future, we may incur additional significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions, expand our business or develop our properties. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness, reducing available cash and our ability to make distributions on our common units; 27 Table of Contents •a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •the covenants contained in our debt agreements will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments; •a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; •our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; •a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility; and •a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. In addition, borrowings under our Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility, our intercompany credit facility and other credit facilities we may enter into in the future will bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to common unitholders. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance debt obligations and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. In addition, the bank borrowing base under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility will be subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to common unit holders. Covenants in our debt instruments could limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain transactions, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing our notes and the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability, among other things, to: •incur, assume or guarantee additional debt or issue redeemable or preferred units; •make distributions or prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt; 28 Table of Contents •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries; •incur liens; •sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; and •merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets. In particular, the indenture governing our notes prohibits us from making distributions to unitholders if any default or event of default (as defined in the indenture) exists. In addition, the indenture contains covenants limiting our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. The covenants will apply differently depending on our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture). If the fixed charge coverage ratio is not less than 2.5 to 1.0, we will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to our unitholders, without substantive restriction. If the fixed charge coverage ratio is less than 2.5 to 1.0, we will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to our unitholders, up to an aggregate $100.0 million basket plus certain other amounts referred to as "incremental funds" under the indenture. In addition, the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility requires us to maintain a minimum excess availability under the facility as a condition to the payment of distributions to our unitholders. Any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. A breach of the covenants under the foregoing debt instruments could result in an event of default. Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility would have all remedies available to a secured lender, and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our subsidiaries' assets, and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation, subject to intercreditor agreements. The holders of the 2022 Notes could accelerate all amounts due thereunder and also force us into bankruptcy and liquidation. In addition, any defaults could trigger cross defaults under other or future credit agreements or indentures. Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. Instability and volatility in the capital, credit and commodity markets in the global economy could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted by difficult conditions and volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the global economy. For example: •Although we believe we have sufficient liquidity under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility and the intercompany credit facility to operate both the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries, under extreme market conditions there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. •Market volatility could exert downward pressure on the price of our common units, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and thereby limit our ability to grow, which could in turn cause the price of our common units to drop. •Market conditions could result in our significant customers experiencing financial difficulties. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and their failure to meet their financial obligations when due because of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. 29 Table of Contents Changes in our credit profile may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to operate our refineries at full capacity. Changes in our credit profile may affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and may induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security prior to payment. Given the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, a burdensome change in payment terms may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at full capacity. A failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Our commodity derivative contracts may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks. We enter into commodity derivatives contracts to mitigate our crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected refined products production. However, our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging contracts, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in margins. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement; •the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or •a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement. As a result, the effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategy could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and our ability to make distributions to unitholders. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress has adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") to institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The rulemaking process is still ongoing, and we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the rulemakings. New regulations in this area may result in increased costs and cash collateral requirements for derivative instruments we may use to hedge and otherwise manage our financial risks related to volatility in oil and gas commodity prices. Existing design, operational, and maintenance issues associated with acquisitions may not be identified immediately and may require unanticipated capital expenditures that could impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to unitholders, could be adversely affected. Our due diligence associated with asset acquisitions may result in assuming liabilities associated with unknown conditions or deficiencies, as well as known but undisclosed conditions and deficiencies that we may have limited, if any, recourse for cost recovery. Many acquisition agreements have similar 30 Table of Contents terms, conditions and timing of cost recovery that may not become evident until sometime after cost recovery provisions, if any, have expired. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our refineries and other facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to unitholders, could be adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities, or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including: •denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits; •unplanned increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor; •disruptions in transportation of equipment and materials; •severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of our vendors and suppliers; •shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; •market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or •nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, our vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors. Our refineries have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. For example, we have spent approximately $88.8 million on the most recently completed turnaround at the Coffeyville refinery and we incurred approximately $102.5 million associated with the turnaround for the Wynnewood refinery, which we completed in December 2012. These costs do not result in increases in unit capacities, but rather are focused on trying to maintain safe, reliable operations. Any one or more of these occurrences noted above could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Environmental laws and regulations could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remain in compliance or to remediate current or future contamination that could give rise to material liabilities. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the environment, product specifications and the generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal and remediation of solid and hazardous wastes. Violations of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial penalties, injunctive orders compelling installation of additional controls, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. 31 Table of Contents In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement of laws and regulations or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. These expenditures or costs for environmental compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Non-compliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. Additionally, due to the nature of our manufacturing and refining processes, there may be times when we are unable to meet the standards and terms and conditions of our permits, licenses and approvals due to operational upsets or malfunctions, which may lead to the imposition of fines and penalties or operating restrictions that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our facilities and accordingly our financial performance. For a discussion of environmental laws and regulations and their impact on our business and operations, please see "Business — Environmental Matters." We could incur significant cost in cleaning up contamination at our refineries, terminals, and off-site locations. Our businesses are subject to the occurrence of accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment. Past or future spills related to any of our current or former operations, including our refineries, pipelines, product terminals, or transportation of products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and potential cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the CERCLA, and similar state statutes for past or future spills without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with the law at the time of the spills. Pursuant to CERCLA and similar state statutes, we could be held liable for contamination associated with facilities we currently own or operate (whether or not such contamination occurred prior to our acquisition thereof), facilities we formerly owned or operated (if any) and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or byproducts containing hazardous substances for treatment, storage, or disposal. The potential penalties and cleanup costs for past or future releases or spills, liability to third parties for damage to their property or exposure to hazardous substances, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require response actions could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we may incur liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for cleanup costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our facilities to adjacent and other nearby properties. Three of our facilities, including our Coffeyville refinery, the now-closed Phillipsburg terminal (which operated as a refinery until 1991), and the Wynnewood refinery, have environmental contamination. We have assumed Farmland's responsibilities under certain administrative orders under the RCRA related to contamination at or that originated from the Coffeyville refinery and the 32 Table of Contents Phillipsburg terminal. The Wynnewood refinery is required to conduct investigations to address potential off-site migration of contaminants from the west side of the property. Other known areas of contamination at the Wynnewood refinery have been partially addressed but corrective action has not been completed, and some portions of the Wynnewood refinery have not yet been investigated to determine whether corrective action is necessary. If significant unknown liabilities are identified at any of our facilities, that liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and may not be covered by insurance. We may incur future liability relating to the off-site disposal of hazardous wastes. Companies that dispose of, or arrange for the treatment, transportation or disposal of, hazardous substances at off-site locations may be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of contamination at those off-site locations, regardless of fault. We could become involved in litigation or other proceedings involving off-site waste disposal and the damages or costs in any such proceedings could be material. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business. We hold numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at our facilities. Future expansion of our operations is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, the Wynnewood refinery's OPDES permit has expired and is in the renewal process. At this time, the Wynnewood refinery is operating under expired permit terms and conditions (called a permit shield) until the state regulatory agency renews the permit. The renewal permits may contain different terms and conditions that would require unplanned or unanticipated costs. Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Various regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including CO2, methane and nitrous oxides) are in different phases of implementation or discussion. In the aftermath of its 2009 "endangerment finding" that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and welfare, the EPA has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. In October 2009, the EPA finalized a rule requiring certain large emitters of greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions to the EPA. In accordance with the rule, we have begun monitoring and reporting our greenhouse gas emissions at our Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries and are reporting the emissions to the EPA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized the "Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule," which established new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources, such as our refineries, must obtain permits under PSD and Title V programs of the federal Clean Air Act. In cases where a new source is constructed or an existing major source undergoes a major modification, the facility is required to undergo PSD review and to evaluate and implement or install BACT for its greenhouse gas emissions. Phase-in permit requirements began for the largest stationary sources in 2011. A major modification resulting in a significant expansion of production and a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions at the nitrogen fertilizer plant or the refineries may require the installation of BACT as part of the permitting process. In the meantime, in December 2010, the EPA reached a settlement agreement with numerous parties under which it agreed to promulgate NSPS to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from petroleum refineries. The EPA may propose the NSPS in 2013. 33 Table of Contents During a State of the Union address in February 2013, President Obama indicated that the United States would take action to address climate change. At the federal legislative level, this could mean Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. In addition to potential federal legislation, a number of states have adopted regional greenhouse gas initiatives to reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. In 2007, a group of Midwestern states, including Kansas (where our Coffeyville refinery is located), formed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, which calls for the development of a cap-and-trade system to control greenhouse gas emissions and for the inventory of such emissions. However, the individual states that have signed on to the accord must adopt laws or regulations implementing the trading scheme before it becomes effective, and it is unclear whether Kansas still intends to do so. Alternatively, the EPA may take further steps to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The implementation of EPA regulations will result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions program. Increased costs associated with compliance with any current or future legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, if it occurs, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, climate change legislation and regulations may result in increased costs not only for our business but also users of our refined products, thereby potentially decreasing demand for our products. Decreased demand for our products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers, and the proper design, operation and maintenance of our refinery equipment. In addition, OSHA and certain environmental regulations require that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees and state and local governmental authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, may result in significant fines or compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt 34 Table of Contents our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business. Deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. Intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. Our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. Governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business depends on significant customers and the loss of several significant customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Both the Coffeyville and the Wynnewood refineries have a significant concentration of customers. Our five largest customers represented 36% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. Given the nature of our business, and consistent with industry practice, we do not have long-term minimum purchase contracts with any of our customers. The loss of several of these significant customers, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by several of them, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our plans to expand the gathering assets making up part of our supporting logistics businesses, which assist us in reducing our costs and increasing our processing margins, may expose us to significant additional risks, compliance costs and liabilities. We plan to continue to make investments to enhance the operating flexibility of our refineries and to improve our crude oil sourcing advantage through additional investments in our gathering and logistics operations. If we are able to successfully increase the effectiveness of our supporting logistics businesses, including our crude oil gathering operations, we believe we will be able to enhance our crude oil sourcing flexibility and reduce related crude oil purchasing and delivery costs. However, the acquisition of infrastructure assets to expand our gathering operations may expose us to risks in the future that are different than or incremental to the risks we face with respect to our refineries and existing gathering and logistics operations. The storage and transportation of liquid hydrocarbons, including crude oil and refined products, are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit our operations, or claims of damages to property or persons resulting from our operations. Any businesses or assets that we may acquire in connection with an expansion of our crude oil gathering operations could expose us to the risk of releasing hazardous materials into the environment. These releases would expose us to potentially substantial expenses, including cleanup and remediation costs, fines and penalties, and third-party claims for personal injury or property damage related to past or future releases. Accordingly, if we do acquire any such businesses or assets, we could also incur additional expenses not covered by insurance which could be material. 35 Table of Contents More stringent trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. In connection with the trucking operations conducted by our crude gathering division, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety, and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. Furthermore, from time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, such as proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes will be enacted or the extent to which they will apply to us and our operations. The acquisition and expansion strategy of our business involves significant risks. Our management will consider pursuing acquisitions and expansion projects in order to continue to grow and increase profitability. However, we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions or expansions, due to intense competition for suitable acquisition targets, the potential unavailability of financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions and expansions, difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and expansion projects or in completing any transactions identified on sufficiently favorable terms and the failure to obtain requisite regulatory or other governmental approvals. In addition, any future acquisitions and expansions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets and lines of business. In addition to the risks involved in identifying and completing acquisitions described above, even when acquisitions are completed, integration of acquired entities can involve significant difficulties, such as: •unforeseen difficulties in the integration of the acquired operations and disruption of the ongoing operations of our business; •failure to achieve cost savings or other financial or operating objectives contributing to the accretive nature of an acquisition; •strain on the operational and managerial controls and procedures of our business, and the need to modify systems or to add management resources; •difficulties in the integration and retention of customers or personnel and the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies; •assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues; •amortization of acquired assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; •possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; and •diversion of management's attention from the ongoing operations of our business. 36 Table of Contents In addition, in connection with any potential acquisition or expansion project, we will need to consider whether a business we intend to acquire or expansion project we intend to pursue could affect our tax treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we are otherwise unable to conclude that the activities of the business being acquired or the expansion project would not affect our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we may elect to seek a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). Seeking such a ruling could be costly or, in the case of competitive acquisitions, places us in a competitive disadvantage compared to other potential acquirers who do not need to seek such a ruling. If we are unable to conclude that an activity would not affect our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and are unable or unwilling to obtain an IRS ruling, we may choose to acquire such business or develop such expansion project in a corporate subsidiary, which would subject the income related to such activity to entity-level taxation, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the unitholders and could likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of its common units. Failure to manage these acquisition and expansion growth risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders . There can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or expansions, successfully integrate acquired entities, or generate positive cash flow at any acquired company or expansion project. We are a holding company and depend upon our subsidiaries for our cash flow. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or to pay distributions in the future will depend upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of distributions, tax sharing payments or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to make any payments to us will depend on, among other things, their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, tax considerations and legal restrictions. Our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate for our capital needs. Refining businesses such as ours are capital intensive, and working capital needs may vary significantly over relatively short periods of time. For instance, crude oil price volatility can significantly impact working capital on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. If we cannot generate adequate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs or support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may be unable to meet our debt obligations, pursue our business strategies or comply with certain environmental standards, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized and we are subject to the risk of labor disputes and adverse employee relations, which may disrupt our business and increase our costs. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 53% of the employees at the Coffeyville refinery and 62% of the employees at the Wynnewood refinery were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. At Coffeyville, the collective bargaining agreement with six Metal Trades Unions (which covers union members who work directly at the Coffeyville refinery) is effective through March 2017, and the collective bargaining agreement with United Steelworkers (which covers unionized employees who work in the terminal and related operations) is effective through March 2015, and automatically renews on an annual basis thereafter unless a written notice is received sixty days in advance of the relevant expiration date. The collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers with respect to the Wynnewood refinery expires in June 2015. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms 37 Table of Contents or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Inherent in Our Limited Partnership Structure and Common Units The board of directors of our general partner has in place a policy to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our general partner's current policy is to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter to our unitholders, beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2013, which will exclude the period prior to our Initial Public Offering. As a result, we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As such, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally; our distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. The board of directors of the general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion, including in such a manner that would result in an elimination of cash distributions regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. In addition, because of our distribution policy, our growth, if any, may not be as robust as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures or as in-kind distributions, current unitholders will experience dilution and the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the outstanding common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. We rely primarily on the executive officers of CVR Energy to manage most aspects of our business and affairs pursuant to a services agreement, which CVR Energy can terminate at any time after January 23, 2014. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of CVR Energy's senior management team. We have entered into a services agreement with our general partner and CVR Energy whereby CVR Energy has agreed to provide us with the services of its senior management team as well as accounting, business operations, legal, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. At any time after January 23, 2014, CVR Energy can terminate this agreement, subject to a 180-day notice period. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of CVR Energy's senior management team could negatively affect our ability to operate our business and pursue our business strategies. We do not have employment agreements with any of CVR Energy's officers and we do not maintain any key person insurance. In addition, CVR Energy may not continue to provide us the officers that are necessary for the conduct of our business or such provision may not be on terms that are acceptable. If CVR Energy elected to terminate the service agreement on 180 days' notice after January 23, 2014, we might not be able to find qualified individuals to serve as our executive officers within such 180-day period. In addition, pursuant to the services agreement we are responsible for a portion of the compensation expense of such executive officers according to the percentage of time such executive officers spent working for us. However, the compensation of such executive officers is set by CVR Energy, and we have no control over the amount paid to such officers. The services agreement does not contain any cap on the amounts we may be required to pay CVR Energy pursuant to this agreement. 38 Table of Contents Our general partner, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of CVR Energy, owes fiduciary duties to CVR Energy and its stockholders, and the interests of CVR Energy and its stockholders may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders. Our general partner is responsible for managing us. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to our interest, the fiduciary duties are specifically limited by the express terms of our partnership agreement, and the directors and officers of our general partner also have fiduciary duties to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to CVR Energy and its stockholders. The interests of CVR Energy and its stockholders may differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests, the interests of CVR Refining Holdings, its sole member, or the interests of CVR Energy and holders of CVR Energy's common stock, including its majority stockholder, Icahn Enterprises, over our interests and those of our common unitholders. The potential conflicts of interest include, among others, the following: •Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the owners of our general partner, including CVR Energy, to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The affiliates of our general partner, including CVR Energy, have fiduciary duties to make decisions in their own best interests and in the best interest of holders of CVR Energy's common stock, including Icahn Enterprises, which may be contrary to our interests. In addition, our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us or our unitholders, such as its owners or CVR Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. •Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. There is no limitation on the amounts our general partner can cause us to pay it or its affiliates. •Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. In addition, our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for us. •Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and replaces the fiduciary duties of our general partner and restricts the remedies available to us and our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and replaces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Delaware partnership law permits such contractual reductions of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, common unitholders consent to some actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties applicable under state law. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that replace the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us or our common unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity are made by CVR Refining Holdings as the sole member of our 39 Table of Contents general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of the general partner's call right, its voting rights with respect to any common units it may own, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation or amendment to our partnership agreement. •provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it did not make such decisions in bad faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were adverse to our interest. •provides that our general partner and the officers and directors of our general partner will not be liable for monetary damages to us for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that such losses or liabilities were the result of the conduct of our general partner or such officer or director engaged in by it in bad faith or with respect to any criminal conduct, with the knowledge that its conduct was unlawful. •provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: –approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or –approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding units, excluding any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. CVR Energy has the power to appoint and remove our general partner's directors. CVR Energy has the power to elect all of the members of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Our public unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of CVR Energy and Icahn Enterprises, as the indirect owners of our general partner, may not be consistent with those of our public unitholders. Common units are subject to our general partner's call right. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 95% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by public unitholders at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. If our general partner and its affiliates reduce their ownership percentage to below 70% of the outstanding units, the ownership threshold to exercise the call right will be permanently reduced to 80%. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. A unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of its common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and then exercising its call right. Our general partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right. 40 Table of Contents Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or our general partner's directors and do not have sufficient voting power to remove our general partner without CVR Energy's consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or our general partner's board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, are chosen entirely by CVR Energy as the indirect owner of the general partner and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we do not hold annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have no practical ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished. As of the date of this Report, CVR Energy indirectly owns approximately 81% of our common units, which means holders of common units other than CVR Energy, will not be able to remove the general partner, under any circumstances, unless CVR Energy sells some of the common units that it owns or we sell additional units to the public. In addition, an affiliate of Icahn Enterprises purchased in the Initial Public Offering 4,000,000 of our common units, as a result of which it directly owns approximately 3% of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units (other than our general partner and its affiliates and permitted transferees). Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, may not vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on our outstanding units, we will reimburse our general partner for all expenses it incurs on our behalf including, without limitation, our pro rata portion of management compensation and overhead charged by CVR Energy in accordance with our services agreement. The services agreement does not contain any cap on the amount we may be required to pay pursuant to this agreement. The payment of these amounts, including allocated overhead, to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to the holders of our common units. Our general partner's interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner to transfer their equity interests in our general partner to a third party. The new equity owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and the officers of our 41 Table of Contents general partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. If control of our general partner were transferred to an unrelated third party, the new owner of the general partner would have no interest in CVR Energy. We rely substantially on the senior management team of CVR Energy and have entered into a number of significant agreements with CVR Energy, including a services agreement pursuant to which CVR Energy provides us with the services of its senior management team. If our general partner were no longer controlled by CVR Energy, CVR Energy could be more likely to terminate the services agreement which, after January 23, 2014, it may do upon 180 days' notice. We may issue additional common units and other equity interests without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the existing ownership interests of our unitholders. Under our partnership agreement, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of additional interests without a vote of the unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders immediately prior to the issuance will decrease; •the amount of cash distributions on each unit will decrease; •the ratio of our taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline. In addition, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance by our subsidiaries of equity interests, which may effectively rank senior to the common units. Units eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common units to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity interests. As of March 8, 2013, there were 147,600,000 common units outstanding. Of this amount, (i) 20,000,000 common units were sold to the public in the Initial Public Offering, (ii) 4,000,000 common units were purchased by an Icahn Enterprises affiliate in the Initial Public Offering, (iii) 3,600,000 units were purchased by the underwriters as a result of the exercise of their option granted in connection with the Initial Public Offering and (iv) 119,988,000 and 12,000 common units were owned by CVR Refining Holdings and CVR Refining Holdings Sub, LLC, each of which is a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of CVR Energy. The 23,600,000 common units sold in the Initial Public Offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), by persons other than "affiliates," as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have the right to cause us to register their units under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. In connection with the Initial Public Offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Icahn Enterprises, CVR Refining Holdings and CVR Refining Holdings Sub, LLC, pursuant to which we may be required to register the sale of the common units they hold under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake a future public or private offering 42 Table of Contents of common units and use the net proceeds from such offering to redeem an equal number of common units held by Icahn Enterprises, CVR Refining Holdings or CVR Refining Holdings Sub, LLC. In connection with the Initial Public Offering, we, CVR Refining Holdings, our general partner and our general partner's directors and executive officers entered into lock-up agreements, pursuant to which they agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, any of our common units until July 15, 2013, subject to extension in certain circumstances. Following termination of these lockup agreements, all units held by CVR Refining Holdings, our general partner and their affiliates will be freely tradable under Rule 144, subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require, or will require, publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that will further increase our costs. Before we are able to make distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership and other operating expenses. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by our expenses, including the costs associated with being a publicly traded partnership. We estimate that we will incur approximately $5.0 million of estimated incremental costs per year, some of which will be direct charges associated with being a publicly traded partnership, and some of which will be allocated to us by CVR Energy; however, it is possible that our actual incremental costs of being a publicly traded partnership will be higher than we currently estimate. In connection with the Initial Public Offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). We expect these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make compliance activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our SEC reporting requirements. As a publicly traded partnership we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE's corporate governance requirements. As a publicly traded partnership, we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE's corporate governance requirements, including: •the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of our general partner consist of independent directors; •the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and •the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. As a result of these exemptions, our general partner's board of directors will not be comprised of a majority of independent directors, our general partner may choose not to have a compensation committee or to have a compensation committee that does not consist entirely of independent directors, and our general partner's board of directors does not currently intend to establish a nominating/corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same 43 Table of Contents protections afforded to equityholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under current rules, we will be required to comply with Section 404 in our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2013. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the "PCAOB"), rules and regulations that remain unremediated. Although we produce our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. As a publicly traded partnership, we will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. If we do not implement improvements to our disclosure controls and procedures or to our internal controls in a timely manner, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences or a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We could also suffer a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements if our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal controls, if we do not develop and maintain effective controls and procedures or if we are otherwise unable to deliver timely and reliable financial information. Any loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or other negative reaction to our failure to develop timely or adequate disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls could result in a decline in the price of our common units. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and the price of our common units may be adversely affected. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe, based upon our current operations, that we will be so treated, a change in our business 44 Table of Contents (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity level taxation. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to the holders of our common units would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to the unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to its share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Following the Initial Public Offering, our sponsor directly and indirectly owns more than 50% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by our sponsor of all or a portion of its interests in us could result in a termination of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a common unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than the calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal 45 Table of Contents income tax purposes, but instead, after our termination we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells its common units, such holder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in such holder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units it sells will, in effect, become taxable income to such holder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price it receives is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation and depletion deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a common unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its common units, such holder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or "IRAs"), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns. 46 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. Accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, a holder of our common units will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if such unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. We will initially own assets and/or conduct business in the states of Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and South Dakota. These states, other than Texas and South Dakota, currently impose a personal income tax. These states, other than South Dakota, also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. A unitholder may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in these states. Further, a unitholder may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is a unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. 47 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 