Item 1A. Risk FactorsLimited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Report.If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, we might not be able to make distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.Risks Inherent in Our BusinessWe may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on our common units.We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay any distributions to our common unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay distributions on a quarterly basis or otherwise. The board of directors of our general partner may at any time, for any reason, change our cash distribution policy or decide not to make any distribution. The amount of cash we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which is directly dependent upon the margins we generate. Please see "— The price volatility of crude oil and other feedstocks, refined products and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our ability to pay distributions to unitholders" below. In addition, as discussed below, the amount of cash we have to distribute each quarter under our general partner's current distribution policy will be reduced by (i) maintenance and certain environmental capital expenditures, (ii) payments in respect of debt service and other contractual obligations, and (iii) increases in reserves for future operating or capital needs that our general partner deems necessary or appropriate.The price volatility of crude oil and other feedstocks, refined products and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay distributions to unitholders.Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between refined product prices and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices tightens, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors including fluctuations in prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products. Continued future volatility in refining industry margins may cause a decline in our results of operations, since the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices may decrease below the amount needed for us to generate net cash flow sufficient for our needs. Although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil generally results in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there is normally a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our results of operations therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, could have a significant negative impact on our earnings, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to unitholders.Our profitability is also impacted by our ability to purchase crude oil at a discount to benchmark crude oils, such as WTI, as we do not produce any crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. Crude oil differentials can fluctuate significantly based upon overall economic and crude oil market conditions. Declines in crude oil differentials can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. For example, infrastructure and logistical improvements and other factors could result in a reduction of the WTI-Brent differential that has provided us with increased profitability. In addition, our purchases of crude oil, although based on WTI prices, have historically been at a discount to WTI because of our proximity to 17Table of Contentsthe sources, existing logistics infrastructure and quality differences. Any change in the sources of our crude oil, infrastructure or logistical improvements or quality differences could result in a reduction of our historical discount to WTI and may result in a reduction of our cost advantage.Refining margins are also impacted by domestic and global refining capacity. Downturns in the economy reduce the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, generate excess capacity. In addition, the expansion and construction of refineries domestically and globally can increase refined fuel production capacity. Excess capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows.Crack spreads, refining margins and crude oil prices may decline, possibly materially, at any time. For example, during 2011 and 2012, favorable crack spreads and access to a variety of price-advantaged crude oils resulted in higher Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow generation that was greater than usual. However, in 2013, crack spreads weakened and the crude oil pricing differential tightened, resulting in lower Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow generation as compared to prior years. We are significantly affected by developments in the markets in which we operate. For example, Enbridge Inc.'s purchase of 50% of the Seaway crude oil pipeline and the reversal of the pipeline to make it flow from Cushing to the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Seaway capacity expansion project provides mid-continent producers with the ability to transport crude oil to Gulf Coast refiners in an economic manner. A significant deterioration in market conditions would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.Volatile prices for natural gas and electricity also affect our manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets.The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability.The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may be affected by non-cash items. For example, we may have working capital changes as well as extraordinary capital expenditures and major maintenance expenses in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Capital Spending." While these items may not affect our profitability in a quarter, they would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution with respect to such quarter. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we report losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report net income.The amount of our quarterly cash distributions, if any, will vary significantly both quarterly and annually and will be directly dependent on the performance of our business which is volatile and seasonal. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time.Historically, our business performance has been volatile and seasonal. For instance, our results of operations for the second and third quarters are generally higher than our results of operations for the first and fourth quarters, as demand for gasoline products increases due to higher highway traffic and road construction work during the summer months, and demand for diesel fuel decreases somewhat due to decreased agricultural activity. We expect that our future business performance will be more volatile and seasonal, and that our cash flows will be less stable, than the business performance and cash flows of most publicly traded partnerships. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. Because our quarterly distributions will significantly correlate to the cash we generate each quarter after payment of our fixed and variable expenses, future quarterly distributions paid to our unitholders will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be zero.The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion, including in such a manner that would result in an elimination of cash distributions regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. Our partnership agreement does not require us to make any distributions at all.Our general partner's current policy is to distribute an amount equal to all of the available cash we generate each quarter to unitholders of record on a pro rata basis. However, the board of directors of our general partner may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to make distributions for one or more quarters regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. Our partnership agreement does not require us to make any distributions at all. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders.18Table of ContentsOur refining business faces significant risks due to physical damage hazards, environmental liability risk exposure and unplanned or emergency partial or total plant shutdowns resulting in business interruptions. We could incur potentially significant costs to the extent there are unforeseen events which cause property damage and a material decline in production which are not fully insured. The commercial insurance industry engaged in underwriting energy industry risk is specialized and there is finite capacity; therefore, the industry may limit or curtail coverage, may modify the coverage provided or may substantially increase premiums in the future.If any of our production plants, logistics assets, key pipeline operations serving our plants, or key suppliers sustains a catastrophic loss and operations are shutdown or significantly impaired, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and cash flows. Operations at either or both of the refineries could be curtailed, limited or completely shutdown for an extended period of time as the result of one or more unforeseen events and circumstances, which may not be within our control, including: •major unplanned maintenance requirements; •catastrophic events caused by mechanical breakdown, electrical injury, pressure vessel rupture, explosion, contamination, fire or natural disasters, including floods, windstorms and other similar events;•labor supply shortages or labor contract disputes that result in a work stoppage or slowdown;•cessation or suspension of a plant or specific operations dictated by environmental authorities; and •an event or incident involving a large clean-up, decontamination, or the imposition of laws and ordinances regulating the cost and schedule of demolition or reconstruction, which can cause significant delays in restoring property to a pre-loss condition.We have sustained losses over the past ten-year period at our plants, which are illustrative of the types of risks and hazards that exist. These losses or events resulted in costs assumed by us that were not fully insured due to policy retentions or applicable exclusions. These events were as follows:•June 2007: Coffeyville refinery; flood•December 2010: Coffeyville refinery; FCCU fire•December 2010: Wynnewood refinery; hydrocracker unit fire•September 2012: Wynnewood refinery; boiler explosion•July/August 2013: Coffeyville refinery; FCCU outageCurrently, we have an insurance program for property and business interruption coverage having a combined policy limit of $1.0 billion. Under this insurance program, we have a $5.0 million property damage retention for all properties. For business interruption losses, the insurance program has a retention of a 45-day waiting period for any one occurrence (60 days in respect of the Wynnewood refinery). Using forecasted business interruption values determined in the manner the insurance program would insure such losses, the potential losses retained within the waiting period are approximately $61.0 million for the Coffeyville refinery and $31.0 million for the Wynnewood refinery. Actual losses retained could exceed these amounts if actual financial results are in excess of the forecasted values. In addition, the insurance policies contain a schedule of sub-limits which apply to certain specific perils or areas of coverage. Sub-limits which may be of importance depending on the nature and extent of a particular insured occurrence are: flood, earthquake, contingent business interruption insuring key suppliers, pipelines and customers, debris removal, decontamination, demolition and increased cost of construction due to law and ordinance, and others. Such conditions, limits and sub-limits could materially impact insurance recoveries and potentially cause us to assume losses which could impair earnings. There is finite capacity in the commercial insurance industry engaged in underwriting energy industry risk, and there are risks associated with the commercial insurance industry reducing capacity, changing the scope of insurance coverage offered, and substantially increasing premiums due to adverse loss experience or other financial circumstances. Factors that impact insurance cost and availability include, but are not limited to: industry wide losses, natural disasters, specific losses incurred by us and the investment returns earned by the insurance industry. If the supply of commercial insurance is curtailed due to highly adverse financial results we may not be able to continue our present limits of insurance coverage or obtain sufficient insurance capacity to adequately insure our risks for property damage or business interruption.19Table of ContentsIf we are required to obtain our crude oil supply without the benefit of a crude oil supply agreement, our exposure to the risks associated with volatile crude oil prices may increase and our liquidity may be reduced.Since December 31, 2009, we have obtained substantially all of our crude oil supply for the Coffeyville refinery, other than the crude oil we gather, through the Vitol Agreement. The Vitol Agreement was amended and restated on August 31, 2012 to include the provision of crude oil intermediation services to our Wynnewood refinery. The agreement, whose initial term expires on December 31, 2014, minimizes the amount of in-transit inventory and mitigates crude oil pricing risks by ensuring pricing takes place close to the time when the crude oil is refined and the yielded products are sold. If we were required to obtain our crude oil supply without the benefit of a supply intermediation agreement, our exposure to crude oil pricing risks may increase, despite any hedging activity in which we may engage, and our liquidity would be negatively impacted due to increased inventory and the negative impact of market volatility. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew or extend the Vitol Agreement beyond December 31, 2014.Disruption of our ability to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil could reduce our liquidity and increase our costs.In addition to the crude oil the petroleum business gathers locally in Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Nebraska, it also purchased additional crude oil to be refined into liquid fuels in 2013. In 2013, our Coffeyville refinery purchased approximately 65,000 to 70,000 bpd of crude oil while our Wynnewood refinery purchased approximately 60,000 to 65,000 bpd of crude oil. Our Wynnewood refinery has historically acquired most of its purchased crude oil from Texas and Oklahoma with smaller amounts purchased from other regions. Our Coffeyville refinery obtained a portion of its non-gathered crude oil, approximately 26% in 2013, from foreign sources, and our Wynnewood refinery obtained approximately 8% of its non-gathered crude oil from foreign sources as well. The majority of these foreign sourced crude oil barrels were derived from Canada. The actual amount of foreign crude oil we purchase is dependent on market conditions and will vary from year to year. We are subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with foreign suppliers. Disruption of production in any of these regions for any reason could have a material impact on other regions and our business and ability to make distributions. In the event that one or more of our traditional suppliers becomes unavailable to us, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil, or we may only be able to obtain our crude oil supply at unfavorable prices. As a result, we may experience a reduction in our liquidity and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.If our access to the pipelines on which we rely for the supply of our crude oil and the distribution of our products is interrupted, our inventory and costs may increase and we may be unable to efficiently distribute our products.If one of the pipelines on which either of the Coffeyville or Wynnewood refineries relies for supply of crude oil becomes inoperative, we would be required to obtain crude oil through alternative pipelines or from additional tanker trucks, which could increase our costs and result in lower production levels and profitability. Similarly, if a major refined fuels pipeline becomes inoperative, we would be required to keep refined fuels in inventory or supply refined fuels to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by additional tanker trucks, which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability.The geographic concentration of our refineries and related assets creates an exposure to the risks of the local economy in which we operate and other local adverse conditions. The location of our refineries also creates the risk of increased transportation costs should the supply/demand balance change in our region such that regional supply exceeds regional demand for refined products.As our refineries are both located in the southern portion of Group 3 of the PADD II region, we primarily market our refined products in a relatively limited geographic area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect our operating area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population, increased supply of refined products from competitors and reductions in the supply of crude oil.Should the supply/demand balance shift in our region as a result of changes in the local economy, an increase in refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply in the region exceeding demand, we may have to deliver refined products to customers outside of the region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any.If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA's Renewable Fuels Standard mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has promulgated the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which requires refiners to blend "renewable fuels," such as ethanol, into their petroleum fuels or purchase renewable fuel credits, known as RINs, in lieu of blending. Under the RFS, the volume of renewable fuels refineries like us are obligated to 20Table of Contentsblend into their finished petroleum products is adjusted annually. We currently purchase RINs for some fuel categories on the open market, as well as waiver credits for cellulosic biofuels from the EPA, in order to comply with the RFS. Existing laws or regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum products may increase. In the future, we may be required to purchase additional RINs on the open market and waiver credits from the EPA in order to comply with the RFS. During 2013, the price of RINs was extremely volatile as the EPA’s proposed renewable fuel volume mandates approached the “blend wall.” The blend wall refers to the point at which refiners are required to blend more ethanol into the transportation fuel supply than can be supported by the demand for E10 gasoline (gasoline containing 10 percent ethanol by volume). The EPA has published the proposed volume mandates for 2014, which acknowledge the blend wall and are generally lower than the volumes for 2013 and lower than statutory mandates. The price of RINs decreased significantly after the 2014 proposed mandate was published; however RIN prices have remained volatile and have increased in 2014. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs or waiver credits, as the cost of RINs is dependent upon a variety of factors, which include the availability of RINs for purchase, the price at which RINs can be purchased, transportation fuel production levels, the mix of our petroleum products, as well as the fuel blending performed at our refineries, all of which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. However, the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINs and waiver credits could likely be material. Additionally, because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refineries' product pool, potentially resulting in lower earning and materially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions.If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA's RFS mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected.We face significant competition, both within and outside of our industry. Competitors who produce their own supply of crude oil or other feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial resources than we do may have a competitive advantage over us.The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to both crude oil and other feedstock supply and refined product markets. We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors within and outside of our industry, which could result in reduced profitability. We compete with numerous other companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. We do not have any long-term arrangements (those exceeding more than a twelve-month period) for much of our output. Many of our competitors obtain significant portions of their crude oil and other feedstocks from company-owned production and have extensive retail outlets. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets with brand-name recognition are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages.A number of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than us. These competitors may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all aspects of the refining industry. An expansion or upgrade of our competitors' facilities, price volatility, international political and economic developments and other factors are likely to continue to play an important role in refining industry economics and may add additional competitive pressure on us.In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. There are presently significant governmental incentives and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the United States. The more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental incentives or regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the negative impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability.Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility.As of the date of this Report, we had $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5% senior notes due 2022 ("2022 Notes") outstanding and availability under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility of $372.9 million and letters of credit outstanding of approximately $27.1 million and availability under the intercompany credit facility of $118.5 million and borrowings outstanding of $31.5 million. In the future, we may incur additional significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions, expand our business or develop our properties. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:•a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness, reducing available cash and our ability to make distributions on our common units;•a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;21Table of Contents•the covenants contained in our debt agreements will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments;•a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing;•our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;•a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility; and•a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes.In addition, borrowings under our Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility, our intercompany credit facility and other credit facilities we may enter into in the future will bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to common unitholders.In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance debt obligations and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt.In addition, the bank borrowing base under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility will be subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to common unitholders.Covenants in our debt instruments could limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain transactions, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pursue our business strategies.The indenture governing our notes and the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability, among other things, to:•incur, assume or guarantee additional debt or issue redeemable or preferred units;•make distributions or prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries;•incur liens;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets.In particular, the indenture governing our notes prohibits us from making distributions to unitholders if any default or event of default (as defined in the indenture) exists. In addition, the indenture contains covenants limiting our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. The covenants will apply differently depending on our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture). If the fixed charge coverage ratio is not less than 2.5 to 1.0, we will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to our unitholders, without substantive restriction. If the fixed charge coverage ratio is less than 2.5 to 1.0, we will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to our unitholders, up to an 22Table of Contentsaggregate $100.0 million basket plus certain other amounts referred to as "incremental funds" under the indenture. In addition, the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility requires us to maintain a minimum excess availability under the facility as a condition to the payment of distributions to our unitholders. Any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions.A breach of the covenants under the foregoing debt instruments could result in an event of default. Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility would have all remedies available to a secured lender, and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our subsidiaries' assets, and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation, subject to intercreditor agreements. The holders of the 2022 Notes could accelerate all amounts due thereunder and also force us into bankruptcy and liquidation. In addition, any defaults could trigger cross defaults under other or future credit agreements or indentures. Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.Instability and volatility in the capital, credit and commodity markets in the global economy could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted by difficult conditions and volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the global economy. For example:•Although we believe we have sufficient liquidity under the Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility and the intercompany credit facility to operate both the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries, under extreme market conditions there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.•Market volatility could exert downward pressure on the price of our common units, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and thereby limit our ability to grow, which could in turn cause the price of our common units to drop.•Market conditions could result in our significant customers experiencing financial difficulties. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and their failure to meet their financial obligations when due because of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons could result in decreased sales and earnings for us.Changes in our credit profile may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to operate our refineries at full capacity.Changes in our credit profile may affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and may induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security prior to payment. Given the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, a burdensome change in payment terms may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at full capacity. A failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.Our commodity derivative contracts may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks.We enter into commodity derivatives contracts to mitigate our crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected refined products production. However, our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve this objective for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging contracts, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in margins. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:•the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement;•accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refinery or our suppliers or customers; •the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or•a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement.23Table of ContentsAs a result, the effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategy could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and our ability to make distributions to unitholders.Our commodity derivative activities could result in period-to-period volatility.We do not apply hedge accounting to our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses are charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of the unsettled position. Such gains and losses are reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the underlying hedged items (i.e., gross margins) are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our operational performance.The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The U.S. Congress has adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") to, among other things, institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing rules and regulations may also require compliance with margin requirements and with clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with certain derivatives activities, though the application of those provisions to us at this time is uncertain. The rulemaking process is still ongoing, and we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the rulemakings. New regulations in this area may result in increased costs and cash collateral requirements for derivative instruments we may use to hedge and otherwise manage our financial risks related to volatility in oil and gas commodity prices.If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and any new rules and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations or plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices. If the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and therefore could have an adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations.Existing design, operational, and maintenance issues associated with acquisitions may not be identified immediately and may require unanticipated capital expenditures that could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.Our due diligence associated with acquisitions may result in our assuming liabilities associated with unknown conditions or deficiencies, as well as known but undisclosed conditions and deficiencies, where we may have limited, if any, recourse for cost recovery. Such conditions and deficiencies may not become evident until sometime after cost recovery provisions, if any, have expired.We must make substantial capital expenditures on our refineries and other facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to unitholders, could be adversely affected.Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities, or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including:•denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits;•unplanned increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor;•disruptions in transportation of equipment and materials;•severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of our vendors and suppliers;•shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;24Table of Contents•market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or•nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, our vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors.Our refineries have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. For example, we incurred approximately $88.8 million associated with the 2011/2012 turnaround completed at the Coffeyville refinery and we incurred approximately $102.5 million associated with the turnaround for the Wynnewood refinery, which we completed in December 2012. These costs do not result in increases in unit capacities, but rather are focused on trying to maintain safe, reliable operations. The first phase of the Coffeyville refinery’s next turnaround is scheduled to begin in late 2015, with the second phase scheduled to begin in early 2016. The next turnaround for the Wynnewood refinery is scheduled to begin in late 2016.Any one or more of these occurrences noted above could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions.Environmental laws and regulations could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remain in compliance or to remediate current or future contamination that could give rise to material liabilities.Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the environment, product specifications and the generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal and remediation of solid and hazardous wastes. Violations of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial penalties, injunctive orders compelling installation of additional controls, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns.In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement of laws and regulations or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. These expenditures or costs for environmental compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability.Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approvals, limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval, limit or standard. Non-compliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. Additionally, due to the nature of our manufacturing and refining processes, there may be times when we are unable to meet the standards and terms and conditions of our permits, licenses and approvals due to operational upsets or malfunctions, which may lead to the imposition of fines and penalties or operating restrictions that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our facilities and accordingly our financial performance. For a discussion of environmental laws and regulations and their impact on our business and operations, please see "Business — Environmental Matters."We could incur significant cost in cleaning up contamination at our refineries, terminals, and off-site locations.Our businesses are subject to the occurrence of accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment. Past or future spills related to any of our current or former operations, including our refineries, pipelines, product terminals, or transportation of products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and potential cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the CERCLA, and similar state statutes for past or future spills without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with the law at the time of the spills. Pursuant to CERCLA and similar state statutes, we could be held liable for contamination associated with facilities we currently own or operate (whether or not such contamination occurred prior to our acquisition thereof), facilities we formerly owned or operated (if any) and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or byproducts containing hazardous substances for treatment, storage, or disposal.The potential penalties and cleanup costs for past or future releases or spills, liability to third parties for damage to their property or exposure to hazardous substances, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require response actions could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we may incur liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our facilities. We may 25Table of Contentsalso face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for cleanup costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our facilities to adjacent and other nearby properties.Three of our facilities, including our Coffeyville refinery, the now-closed Phillipsburg terminal (which operated as a refinery until 1991), and the Wynnewood refinery, have environmental contamination. We have assumed Farmland's responsibilities under certain administrative orders under the RCRA related to contamination at or that originated from the Coffeyville refinery and the Phillipsburg terminal. The Coffeyville refinery has agreed to assume liability for contamination that migrated from the refinery onto the nitrogen fertilizer plant property while Farmland owned and operated the properties. The Wynnewood refinery is required to conduct investigations to address potential off-site migration of contaminants from the west side of the property. Other known areas of contamination at the Wynnewood refinery have been partially addressed but corrective action has not been completed, and some portions of the Wynnewood refinery have not yet been investigated to determine whether corrective action is necessary. If significant unknown liabilities are identified at or migrating from any of our facilities, that liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and may not be covered by insurance.We may incur future liability relating to the off-site disposal of hazardous wastes. Companies that dispose of, or arrange for the treatment, transportation or disposal of, hazardous substances at off-site locations may be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of contamination at those off-site locations, regardless of fault. We could become involved in litigation or other proceedings involving off-site waste disposal and the damages or costs in any such proceedings could be material.We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business.We hold numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at our facilities. Future expansion of our operations is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, the Wynnewood refinery's OPDES permit has expired and is in the renewal process. At this time, the Wynnewood refinery is operating under expired permit terms and conditions (called a permit shield) until the state regulatory agency renews the permit. The renewal permit may contain different terms and conditions that would require unplanned or unanticipated costs.Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Various regulatory and legislative measures to address GHG emissions (including CO2, methane and nitrous oxides) are in different phases of implementation or discussion. In the aftermath of its 2009 "endangerment finding" that GHG emissions pose a threat to public health and welfare, the EPA has begun to regulate GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act.In October 2009, the EPA finalized a rule requiring certain large emitters of GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions to the EPA. In accordance with the rule, we have begun monitoring and reporting our GHG emissions at our Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries to the EPA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized the "Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule," which established new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources, such as our refineries, must obtain permits under PSD and Title V programs of the federal Clean Air Act. In cases where a new source is constructed or an existing major source undergoes a major modification, facilities are required to undergo PSD review and to evaluate and install BACT for their GHG emissions. Phase-in permit requirements began for the largest stationary sources in 2011. A major modification resulting in a significant increase in GHG emissions at either of our refineries may require the installation of BACT as part of the permitting process.In the meantime, in December 2010, the EPA reached a settlement agreement with numerous parties under which it agreed to promulgate NSPS to regulate GHG emissions from petroleum refineries by November 2012. Although the EPA has not yet proposed NSPS standards to regulate GHG emissions for the petroleum refineries, the EPA has proposed NSPS standards to regulate GHG emissions for electric utilities. Therefore, we expect that the EPA will propose standards for our refineries, but the timing of the EPA’s proposal is not known.During a State of the Union address in January 2014, President Obama indicated that the United States would take action to address climate change. At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory GHG emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency.26Table of ContentsIn addition to potential federal legislation, a number of states have adopted regional GHG initiatives to reduce CO2 and other GHG emissions. In 2007, a group of Midwestern states, including Kansas (where our Coffeyville refinery is located), formed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, which calls for the development of a cap-and-trade system to control GHG emissions and for the inventory of such emissions. However, the individual states that have signed on to the accord must adopt laws or regulations implementing the trading scheme before it becomes effective, and it is unclear whether Kansas still intends to do so.Alternatively, the EPA may take further steps to regulate GHG emissions. The implementation of EPA regulations will result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. Increased costs associated with compliance with any current or future legislation or regulation of GHG emissions, if it occurs, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, climate change legislation and regulations may result in increased costs not only for our business but also users of our refined products, thereby potentially decreasing demand for our products. Decreased demand for our products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability.We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers, and the proper design, operation and maintenance of our equipment. In addition, OSHA and certain environmental regulations require that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees and state and local governmental authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, may result in significant fines or compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business.Deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us.Intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. Our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. Governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.Our business depends on significant customers and the loss of several significant customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.Both the Coffeyville and the Wynnewood refineries have a significant concentration of customers. Our five largest customers represented 36% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. Given the nature of our business, and consistent with industry practice, we do not have long-term minimum purchase contracts with any of our customers. The loss of several of these significant customers, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by several of them, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.27Table of ContentsOur plans to expand the gathering assets making up part of our supporting logistics businesses, which assist us in reducing our costs and increasing our processing margins, may expose us to significant additional risks, compliance costs and liabilities.We plan to continue to make investments to enhance the operating flexibility of our refineries and to improve our crude oil sourcing advantage through additional investments in our gathering and logistics operations. If we are able to successfully increase the effectiveness of our supporting logistics businesses, including our crude oil gathering operations, we believe we will be able to enhance our crude oil sourcing flexibility and reduce related crude oil purchasing and delivery costs. However, the acquisition of infrastructure assets to expand our gathering operations may expose us to risks in the future that are different than or incremental to the risks we face with respect to our refineries and existing gathering and logistics operations. The storage and transportation of liquid hydrocarbons, including crude oil and refined products, are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit our operations, or claims of damages to property or persons resulting from our operations.Any businesses or assets that we may acquire in connection with an expansion of our crude oil gathering operations could expose us to the risk of releasing hazardous materials into the environment. These releases would expose us to potentially substantial expenses, including cleanup and remediation costs, fines and penalties, and third-party claims for personal injury or property damage related to past or future releases. Accordingly, if we do acquire any such businesses or assets, we could also incur additional expenses not covered by insurance which could be material.More stringent trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.In connection with the trucking operations conducted by our crude gathering division, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety, and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size.To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. Furthermore, from time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, such as proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes will be enacted or the extent to which they will apply to us and our operations.The acquisition and expansion strategy of our business involves significant risks.Our management will consider pursuing acquisitions and expansion projects in order to continue to grow and increase profitability. However, we may not be able to consummate such acquisitions or expansions, due to intense competition for suitable acquisition targets, the potential unavailability of financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions and expansions, difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and expansion projects or in completing any transactions identified on sufficiently favorable terms and the failure to obtain requisite regulatory or other governmental approvals. In addition, any future acquisitions and expansions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets and lines of business.In addition to the risks involved in identifying and completing acquisitions described above, even when acquisitions are completed, integration of acquired entities can involve significant difficulties, such as:•unforeseen difficulties in the integration of the acquired operations and disruption of the ongoing operations of our business;•failure to achieve cost savings or other financial or operating objectives contributing to the accretive nature of an acquisition;28Table of Contents•strain on the operational and managerial controls and procedures of our business, and the need to modify systems or to add management resources;•difficulties in the integration and retention of customers or personnel and the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies;•assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues;•amortization of acquired assets, which would reduce future reported earnings;•possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; and•diversion of management's attention from the ongoing operations of our business.In addition, in connection with any potential acquisition or expansion project, we will need to consider whether a business we intend to acquire or expansion project we intend to pursue could affect our tax treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we are otherwise unable to conclude that the activities of the business being acquired or the expansion project would not affect our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we may elect to seek a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). Seeking such a ruling could be costly or, in the case of competitive acquisitions, place us in a competitive disadvantage compared to other potential acquirers who do not need to seek such a ruling. If we are unable to conclude that an activity would not affect our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and are unable or unwilling to obtain an IRS ruling, we may choose to acquire such business or develop such expansion project in a corporate subsidiary, which would subject the income related to such activity to entity-level taxation, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the unitholders and could likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.Failure to manage these acquisition and expansion growth risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or expansions, successfully integrate acquired entities, or generate positive cash flow at any acquired company or expansion project.We are a holding company and depend upon our subsidiaries for our cash flow.We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or to pay distributions in the future will depend upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of distributions, tax sharing payments or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to make any payments to us will depend on, among other things, their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, tax considerations and legal restrictions.Our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate for our capital needs.Refining businesses such as ours are capital intensive, and working capital needs may vary significantly over relatively short periods of time. For instance, crude oil price volatility can significantly impact working capital on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. If we cannot generate adequate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs or support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may be unable to meet our debt obligations, pursue our business strategies or comply with certain environmental standards, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized and we are subject to the risk of labor disputes and adverse employee relations, which may disrupt our business and increase our costs.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 50% of the employees at the Coffeyville refinery and 60% of the employees at the Wynnewood refinery were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. At Coffeyville, the collective bargaining agreement with five Metal Trades Unions (which covers union represented employees who work directly at the Coffeyville refinery) expires in March 2018, and the collective bargaining agreement with United Steelworkers (which covers unionized employees who work in the terminal and related operations) expires in March 2016, and automatically renews on an annual basis thereafter unless a written notice is received sixty days in advance of the relevant expiration date. The collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers with respect to the Wynnewood refinery expires in June 2016. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.29Table of ContentsRisks Inherent in Our Limited Partnership Structure and Common UnitsThe board of directors of our general partner has in place a policy to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.Our general partner's current policy is to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter to our unitholders. As a result, we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As such, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. The board of directors of the general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion, including in such a manner that would result in an elimination of cash distributions regardless of the amount of available cash we generate. Our partnership agreement does not require us to make any distributions. In addition, because of our distribution policy, our growth, if any, may not be as robust as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures or as in-kind distributions, current unitholders will experience dilution and the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the outstanding common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.We rely primarily on the executive officers of CVR Energy to manage most aspects of our business and affairs pursuant to a services agreement, which CVR Energy can terminate at any time.Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of CVR Energy's senior management team. We have entered into a services agreement with our general partner and CVR Energy whereby CVR Energy has agreed to provide us with the services of its senior management team as well as accounting, business operations, legal, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. CVR Energy can terminate this agreement at any time, subject to a 180-day notice period. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of CVR Energy's senior management team could negatively affect our ability to operate our business and pursue our business strategies. We do not have employment agreements with any of CVR Energy's officers and we do not maintain any key person insurance. In addition, CVR Energy may not continue to provide us the officers that are necessary for the conduct of our business or such provision may not be on terms that are acceptable. If CVR Energy elected to terminate the service agreement on 180 days' notice, we might not be able to find qualified individuals to serve as our executive officers within such 180-day period.In addition, pursuant to the services agreement we are responsible for a portion of the compensation expense of such executive officers according to the percentage of time such executive officers spend working for us. However, the compensation of such executive officers is set by CVR Energy, and we have no control over the amount paid to such officers. The services agreement does not contain any cap on the amounts we may be required to pay CVR Energy pursuant to this agreement.Our general partner, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of CVR Energy, owes fiduciary duties to CVR Energy and its stockholders, and the interests of CVR Energy and its stockholders may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders.Our general partner is responsible for managing us. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to our interest, the fiduciary duties are specifically limited by the express terms of our partnership agreement, and the directors and officers of our general partner also have fiduciary duties to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to CVR Energy and its stockholders. The interests of CVR Energy and its stockholders may differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests, the interests of CVR Refining Holdings, its sole member, or the interests of CVR Energy and holders of CVR Energy's common stock, including its majority stockholder, Icahn Enterprises, over our interests and those of our common unitholders.The potential conflicts of interest include, among others, the following:•Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the owners of our general partner, including CVR Energy, to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The affiliates of our general partner, including CVR Energy, have fiduciary duties to make decisions in their own best interests and in the best interest of holders of CVR Energy's common stock, including Icahn Enterprises, which may be contrary to our interests. In addition, our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us or our unitholders, such as its owners or CVR Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders.30Table of Contents•Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. There is no limitation on the amounts our general partner can cause us to pay it or its affiliates.•Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. In addition, our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for us.•Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us.In addition, CVR Energy may compete with us, may in the future acquire assets which compete with our assets or may acquire assets such as refineries which we might otherwise have sought to acquire. We do not have any non-compete agreements or understandings with CVR Energy or any other agreement with CVR Energy regarding the allocation of corporate opportunities.Our partnership agreement limits the liability and replaces the fiduciary duties of our general partner and restricts the remedies available to us and our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.Our partnership agreement limits the liability and replaces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Delaware partnership law permits such contractual reductions of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, common unitholders consent to some actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties applicable under state law. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that replace the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example:•Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us or our common unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity are made by CVR Refining Holdings as the sole member of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of the general partner's call right, its voting rights with respect to any common units it may own, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation or amendment to our partnership agreement.•Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it did not make such decisions in bad faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were adverse to our interest.•Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner and the officers and directors of our general partner will not be liable for monetary damages to us for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that such losses or liabilities were the result of the conduct of our general partner or such officer or director engaged in by it in bad faith or with respect to any criminal conduct, with the knowledge that its conduct was unlawful.•Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:•approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or•approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding units, excluding any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates.CVR Energy has the power to appoint and remove our general partner's directors.CVR Energy has the power to elect all of the members of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Our public unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of CVR Energy and Icahn Enterprises, as the indirect owners of our general partner, may not be consistent with those of our public unitholders.31Table of ContentsCommon units are subject to our general partner's call right.If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 95% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by public unitholders at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. If our general partner and its affiliates reduce their ownership percentage to below 70% of the outstanding units, the ownership threshold to exercise the call right will be permanently reduced to 80%. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. A unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of its common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and then exercising its call right. Our general partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right.Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or our general partner's directors and do not have sufficient voting power to remove our general partner without CVR Energy's consent.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or our general partner's board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by CVR Energy as the indirect owner of the general partner and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we do not hold annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have no practical ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished.As of the date of this Report, CVR Energy indirectly owns approximately 71% of our common units, which means holders of common units other than CVR Energy will not be able to remove the general partner, under any circumstances, unless CVR Energy sells some of the common units that it owns or we sell additional units to the public. In addition, affiliates of Icahn Enterprises own approximately 4% of our common units.Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units (other than our general partner and its affiliates and permitted transferees).Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, may not vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management.Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.Prior to making any distribution on our outstanding units, we will reimburse our general partner for all expenses it incurs on our behalf including, without limitation, our pro rata portion of management compensation and overhead charged by CVR Energy in accordance with our services agreement. The services agreement does not contain any cap on the amount we may be required to pay pursuant to this agreement. The payment of these amounts, including allocated overhead, to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to the holders of our common units.Our general partner's interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner to transfer their equity interests in our general partner to a third party. The new equity owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and the officers of our general partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner.If control of our general partner were transferred to an unrelated third party, the new owner of the general partner would have no interest in CVR Energy. We rely substantially on the senior management team of CVR Energy and have entered into a 32Table of Contentsnumber of significant agreements with CVR Energy, including a services agreement pursuant to which CVR Energy provides us with the services of its senior management team. If our general partner were no longer controlled by CVR Energy, CVR Energy could be more likely to terminate the services agreement which it may do upon 180 days' notice.We may issue additional common units and other equity interests without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the existing ownership interests of our unitholders.Under our partnership agreement, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of additional interests without a vote of the unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders immediately prior to the issuance will decrease;•the amount of cash distributions on each unit will decrease;•the ratio of our taxable income to distributions may increase;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and•the market price of the common units may decline.In addition, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance by our subsidiaries of equity interests, which may effectively rank senior to the common units.Units eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common units to decline.Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity interests. As of the date of this Report, there were 147,600,000 common units outstanding. Of this amount, CVR Energy indirectly owns approximately 71% of our common units and public security holders own approximately 29% of our common units. In addition, under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have the right to cause us to register their units under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. In connection with the Initial Public Offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Icahn Enterprises, CVR Refining Holdings and CVR Refining Holdings Sub, LLC, pursuant to which we may be required to register the sale of the common units they hold under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake a future public or private offering of common units and use the net proceeds from such offering to redeem an equal number of common units held by Icahn Enterprises, CVR Refining Holdings or CVR Refining Holdings Sub, LLC.We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership.As a publicly traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require, or will require, publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that will further increase our costs. Before we are able to make distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership and other operating expenses. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by our expenses, including the costs associated with being a publicly traded partnership. We estimate that we will incur approximately $5.0 million of estimated incremental costs per year, some of which will be direct charges associated with being a publicly traded partnership, and some of which will be allocated to us by CVR Energy; however, it is possible that our actual incremental costs of being a publicly traded partnership will be higher than we currently estimate.In connection with the Initial Public Offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These requirements have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make compliance activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we have incurred additional costs associated with our SEC reporting requirements.33Table of ContentsAs a publicly traded partnership we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE's corporate governance requirements.As a publicly traded partnership, we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE's corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of our general partner consist of independent directors;•the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and•the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.Our general partner's board of directors has not established and does not currently intend to establish a nominating/corporate governance committee. Additionally, we could avail ourselves of the additional exemptions available to publicly traded partnerships listed above at any time in the future. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to equityholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.Tax RisksOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Current law requires us to derive at least 90% of our annual gross income from specific activities to continue to be treated as a partnership, rather than as a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may not find it possible to meet this qualifying income requirement, or may inadvertently fail to meet this qualifying income requirement.Although we do not believe, based upon our current operations, that we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity level taxation. We may in the future enter into new activities or businesses. If our legal counsel were to be unable to opine that gross income from any such activity or business will count toward satisfaction of the 90% gross income, or qualifying income, requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could seek a ruling from the IRS that gross income we earn from any such activity or business will be qualifying income. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS would issue a favorable ruling under such circumstances. If we did not receive a favorable ruling, we could choose to engage in the activity or business through a corporate subsidiary, which would subject the income related to such activity or business to entity-level taxation. Except to the extent that we in the future request a ruling regarding the qualifying nature of our income from a particular activity or business, we do not intend to request a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us.If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or if we were otherwise subject to entity-level taxation, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on all of our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. Current law may change to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us 34Table of Contentsto entity-level taxation. The current administration and members of Congress from time to time have recently considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would adversely affect the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could cause a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.Several states currently subject partnerships to entity-level taxation. Specifically, we are subject to the Texas franchise tax. Such taxes reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Other states are evaluating proposals to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of these or similar taxes by any other state in which we do business will further reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and could cause a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. We are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be materially and adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.Except to the extent that we, in the future, request a ruling regarding the qualifying nature of our income, we have not and do not intend to request a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.A unitholder’s share of our income is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us.Our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute. A unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to the unitholder, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income, even if no cash distributions are received from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same common unit will be counted only once. Our sponsor directly and indirectly owns more than 50% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by our sponsor of all or a portion of its interests in us could result in a termination of us as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than one year of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our technical termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, after our termination we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may request special relief that, if granted, would permit the partnership to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior 35Table of Contentsexcess distributions with respect to the common units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation and depletion deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units.We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code, referred to as “Treasury Regulations.” A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could cause a substantial reduction in the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued requiring a change, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. Counsel has not rendered an opinion to us with respect to whether our monthly convention for allocating taxable income and losses is permitted by existing Treasury Regulations.A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the common unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.36Table of ContentsOur unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders are likely to be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We will initially own assets and/or conduct business in the states of Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and South Dakota. These states, other than Texas and South Dakota, currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. These states, other than South Dakota, also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. Unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state, local, and non-U.S. tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state, local, or non-U.S. tax consequences of an investment in our common units. 37Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.