Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in considering our business and prospects. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position, Our Need for Additional Capital and Our Business We have not generated any significant third party external revenue to date, and we anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We may not generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations in the foreseeable future. We have not generated any significant third party external revenues to date. We have incurred losses of $41.4 million, $29.7 million and $12.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as we: • conduct our planned Phase 1 clinical trial for NEOD001 and initiate additional clinical trials, if supported by the results of the Phase 1 trial; • complete preclinical development of other product candidates and initiate clinical trials, if supported by positive preclinical data; • pursue our early stage research and seek to identify additional drug candidates and potentially acquire rights from third parties to drug candidates through licenses, acquisitions or other means; and • add operational, financial and management information systems and other personnel. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. Even if we succeed in discovering, developing and commercializing one or more drug candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or sustain profitability. 14 Table of Contents We will require additional capital to fund our operations, and if we are unable to obtain such capital, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize drug candidates. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $124.9 million. Although we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to support us through at least the next twelve months, we anticipate that we will require additional capital in the future in order to continue the research and development of our drug candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of our clinical trials; • the results of our research and preclinical studies; • the costs of clinical manufacturing and of establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements; • the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • the costs and timing of capital asset purchases; • our ability to establish research collaborations and strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements; • the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and • the timing, receipt, and amount of revenues or royalties, if any, from any approved drug candidates. We have based this expectation on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including, the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of our clinical trials; the results of our research and preclinical studies; the costs of clinical manufacturing and of establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; the costs and timing of capital asset purchases; our ability to establish research collaborations and strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements; the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and the timing, receipt, and amount of revenues or royalties, if any, from any approved drug candidates. In order to develop and obtain regulatory approval for our potential products we will need to raise substantial additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic alliances, joint ventures and licensing arrangements. We cannot assure you that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to: • terminate or delay clinical trials or other development for one or more of our drug candidates; • delay arrangements for activities that may be necessary to commercialize our drug candidates; or • curtail or eliminate our drug research and development programs that are designed to identify new drug candidates or cease operations. We are not able to provide specific estimates of the timelines or total costs to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial for NEOD001. In the pharmaceutical industry, the research and development process is lengthy and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. This process is conducted in various stages and, during each stage, there is a substantial risk that potential products in our research and development pipeline will experience difficulties, delays or failures. This makes it difficult to estimate the total costs to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial for 15 Table of Contents NEOD001, or any potential future drug candidates, and to estimate the anticipated completion date with any degree of accuracy, and raises concerns that attempts to provide estimates of timing may be misleading by implying a greater degree of certainty than actually exists. We may seek to raise any necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic alliances, joint ventures and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us in order to raise additional funds through strategic alliances, joint ventures or licensing arrangements. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on Dr. Dale Schenk, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We expect that we will pay our key executives less cash compensation than what they were paid by Elan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain Dr. Schenk or any of our key executives. .. The loss of the services of Dr. Schenk or any other person on which we become highly dependent might impede the achievement of our research and development objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. Our collaborators, prospective collaborators and suppliers may need assurances that our financial resources and stability on a stand-alone basis are sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with us. Some of our collaborators, prospective collaborators and suppliers may need assurances that our financial resources and stability on a stand-alone basis are sufficient to satisfy their requirements for doing or continuing to do business with us. If our collaborators, prospective collaborators or suppliers are not satisfied with our financial resources and stability, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our drug candidates, enter into licenses or other agreements and on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the Discovery, Development and Regulatory Approval of Drug Candidates Our success is largely dependent on the success of our research and development programs, which are at an early stage. Our drug candidates are still in early stages of development and we have no drug candidates in clinical trials. We may not be able to successfully discover, develop, obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize any drug candidates. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to discover, develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our research and development programs are prone to the significant and likely risks of failure inherent in drug development. We intend to continue to invest most of our time and financial resources in our research and development programs. Although we expect to conduct at least one Phase 1 clinical trial in an orphan indication during the next two years, we currently do not, and may never, have any drug candidates in clinical trials. In addition, we have not identified product candidates for many of our research programs. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any drug candidate for a target indication, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, and, with respect to 16 Table of Contents approval in the United States, to the satisfaction of the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or, with respect to approval in other countries, similar regulatory authorities in those countries, that the drug candidate is safe and effective for use for that target indication. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: • offer improvement over existing, comparable drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; or • meet applicable regulatory standards. Positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials or studies. Our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, or to discontinue clinical trials altogether. Furthermore, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any drugs. Our success will, in addition to the factors discussed above, depend on the successful commercialization of drug candidates, which may require: • obtaining and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers; • collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to market and sell any approved drug; and • acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available for at least seven years and some or all may never become commercially available. Accordingly, we may never generate revenues through the sale of products. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged, delayed, suspended or terminated, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with our planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular drug candidate: • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards, or IRBs, or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining regulatory agency agreement for the conduct of our clinical trials; 17 Table of Contents • lower than anticipated enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size of patient population, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities; • failure to achieve primary or secondary endpoints or other failure to demonstrate efficacy; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be jeopardized. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a drug candidate. Even if our drug candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates. 18 Table of Contents Both before and after marketing approval, our drug candidates are or would be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, and if we fail to comply with these continuing requirements, we could be subject to a variety of sanctions and the sale of any approved products could be suspended. Both before and after regulatory approval to market a particular drug candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the drug are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizures or detentions; • import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. If side effects are identified during the time our drug candidates are in development or after they are approved and on the market, we may choose to or be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, discontinue development of the affected drug candidate, change the labeling of any such products, or withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. Even if any of our drug candidates receives marketing approval, as greater numbers of patients use a drug following its approval, an increase in the incidence of side effects or the incidence of other post-approval problems that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials could result in a number of potentially significant negative consequences, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could substantially increase the costs and expenses of developing, commercializing and marketing any such drug candidates or could harm or prevent sales of any approved products. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Some of our research and development activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, 19 Table of Contents manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. Because we believe that our laboratory and materials handling policies and practices sufficiently mitigate the likelihood of materials liability or third-party claims, we currently carry no insurance covering such claims. An accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, if such approved product does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from sales of the product will be limited. Even if any drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain broad market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance for any approved drug candidate will depend on a number of factors, including: • the indication and label for the product and the timing of introduction of competitive products; • demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; • convenience and ease of administration; • cost-effectiveness; • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and • the effectiveness of marketing and distribution support of the product. Consequently, even if we discover, develop and commercialize a product, the product may fail to achieve broad market acceptance and we may not be able to generate significant revenue from the product. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell an approved product, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or 20 Table of Contents rebates and limiting both coverage and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drug candidates. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. In addition, recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our drug candidates are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. The markets for our drug candidates are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. The research, development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to all drug candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. The key factors affecting the success of any approved product will be its indication, label, efficacy, safety profile, drug interactions, method of administration, pricing, reimbursement and level of promotional activity relative to those of competing drugs. Furthermore, many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target the same indications we are targeting with our research and development program. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • drug candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; and/or • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Competitive products may render our research and development program obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of any vaccine or development of other products or treatments for the diseases we are targeting could render any of our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for a drug candidate, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of the approved product, the timing of its entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Even if we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. 21 Table of Contents If a successful product liability or clinical trial claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could incur substantial liability. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval will expose us to the risk of product liability and clinical trial liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. Clinical trial liability claims may be filed against us for damages suffered by clinical trial subjects or their families. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for any approved drug candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to successfully commercialize any approved drug candidates. We currently have clinical trial liability insurance coverage for our planned Phase 1 clinical trial of NEOD001 with a $10.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit; however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our share price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We will rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of any such clinical trials. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we will need to rely on third parties, such as consultants, contract research organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. Although we have and will enter into agreements with these third parties, we will be responsible for confirming that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with their general investigational plans and protocols. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. To date, we believe our consultants, contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are 22 Table of Contents working have performed well; however, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of our planned clinical trials. Accordingly, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully develop our drug candidates. If we do not establish strategic collaborations, we may have to alter our research and development plans. Our drug research and development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Our strategy includes potentially collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our drug candidates, in some or all geographies. It may be difficult to enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all, in which case we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our pre-clinical and clinical trial drug supplies. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for pre-clinical or clinical production of any of our drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we will rely on a third-party manufacturer to supply, store, and distribute drug supplies for our planned clinical trials until we increase the number of manufacturers with whom we contract. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturer to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If a contract manufacturer cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace it. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacements as our manufacturing processes are not manufacturer specific, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements because the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our drug candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of FDA approval. 23 Table of Contents We anticipate continued reliance on third-party manufacturers if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for any of our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical testing by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any approved drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If third party manufacturers are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party suppliers for key raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, and the loss of these third-party suppliers or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials required for the production of our drug candidates. Our dependence on these third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are currently several other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and potential commercialization of our drug candidates, including limiting supplies necessary for clinical trials and regulatory approvals, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property relating to our drug candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, our ability to successfully commercialize our drug candidates will be harmed. We own or hold licenses to a number of issued patents and U.S. pending patent applications, as well as foreign patents and pending Patent Corporation Treaty applications and foreign counterparts. In connection with our program targeting AL and AA amyloid for the potential treatment of amyloidosis, we have ownership rights in patents expiring between 2020 and 2029. In connection with our program targeting synuclein for the potential treatment of Parkinson’s disease and other synucleinopathies, we have ownership rights and licenses related to patents expiring between 2024 and 2029. We also own patent applications relating to AL and AA, synuclein, MCAM and various discovery programs that are pending in the United States and other countries, which, if issued, would have expiration dates in the range of 2020 through 2032, excluding any available patent term adjustment. See “Business — Patents and Intellectual Property Rights” for a detailed description of our owned and licensed intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates. Our ability to protect our drug candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and 24 Table of Contents enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our drug candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be valid or enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the US Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, for the entire time prior to issuance as a US patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their use as drugs. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference or derivation proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all US and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We intend to license patent rights from third-party owners. Such licenses may be subject to early termination if we fail to comply with our obligations in our licenses with third parties. We intend to enter into licenses that will give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. We expect that any such licensors may be able to terminate any agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Under potential license agreements we may be obligated to pay the licensor fees, which may include annual license fees, royalties, a percentage of revenues associated with the licensed technology and a percentage of sublicensing revenue. In addition, under most such agreements, we will be required to diligently pursue the development of products using the licensed technology. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing drug candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to our drug candidates, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Elan is involved in litigation with the Alzheimer’s Institute of America, or AIA. While the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice, AIA appealed the result and if the appeal is successful, AIA may institute suit against us related to our research activities. If we become involved in this matter it may distract our management and result in substantial costs, although Elan is contractually obligated pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement to reimburse us for our expenses and indemnify us for any damages. 25 Table of Contents In addition, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions relating to our drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our drug candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable; however, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities, Elan or Elan subsidiaries, or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Relating to the Separation and the Distribution We may not realize some or all of the potential benefits we expect from our separation from Elan. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from our separation from Elan. These benefits include the following: • greater strategic focus of financial resources and management’s efforts; 26 Table of Contents • direct and differentiated access to capital resources; • enhanced investor ability to evaluate our financial performance and strategy against our peer group; and • improved ability to align management incentive compensation with our performance by issuing Prothena stock options. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our separation for a variety of reasons, including the following: • the regulatory and other managerial challenges of operating as an independent public company may distract our management team from focusing on our business and strategic priorities; • we will require substantial ongoing cash investment for the foreseeable future, we will no longer be supported by the revenue and cash flows of Elan’s business and we may not be able to issue debt or equity on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our ability to differentiate our company against our peer group and attract early stage biotechnology investors is largely dependent on the success of our research and development programs, which are at an early stage; and • we expect to pay our key executives less cash compensation than what they were paid at Elan, so even if we are able to provide potential equity compensation tied specifically to our business, we may not be able to attract and retain employees as desired. We also may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from our separation if any of the matters identified as risks in this “Risks Factors” section were to occur. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from our separation for any reason, our business may be materially adversely affected. If the IRS successfully challenges the tax-free treatment of the separation and distribution, our U.S. shareholders may incur substantial U.S. federal income tax liability. Elan received an opinion on the closing date of the separation and distribution from each of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP and KPMG LLP to the effect that the separation and distribution should qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the distribution, as such, should qualify as a distribution of our ordinary shares to Elan shareholders under section 355 of the Code. If the separation and distribution are so treated, our shareholders who received our ordinary shares in connection with the separation and distribution should not recognize any gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the receipt of our ordinary shares therefrom, except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional Prothena ordinary shares. However, Elan did not seek a ruling from the IRS addressing the separation and distribution and related transactions. It also should be noted that there is a lack of binding administrative and judicial authority addressing the qualification under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code of transactions substantially similar to the separation and distribution and related transactions. As a result, the IRS could subsequently assert, and a court could determine, that the separation and distribution constitute a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the distribution of our ordinary shares fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction to our shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders who received our ordinary shares in connection with the separation and distribution could be taxed on the full value of the Prothena ordinary shares received, without reduction for any portion of such shareholders’ tax basis in Elan ordinary shares and/or Elan ADSs, since distributions generally are presumed to be taxable dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, under the Tax Matters Agreement, we generally are required to indemnify Elan against any tax-related losses Elan incurs to the extent such losses are attributable to any action, misrepresentation or omission of Prothena or any of its affiliates. 27 Table of Contents The tax consequences of the separation and distribution are complicated and depend on your individual situation. You should consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences of the distribution to you, including the effect of any U.S. federal, state or local or non-U.S. tax laws and of any changes in applicable tax laws. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a separate, stand-alone company, and the transition services Elan has agreed to provide may not be sufficient for our needs. Prior to the separation, our business was operated by Elan as part of its broader corporate organization rather than as a standalone company. Historically, we have relied on financial, administrative and other resources, including the business relationships, of Elan to support the operation of our business. In conjunction with our separation from Elan, we will need to expand our financial, administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace some of Elan’s systems. We will also need to maintain our own credit and banking relationships and perform our own financial and operational functions. We have entered into separation-related agreements with Elan, and Elan has agreed to provide transition services for up to six months following the separation. However, after the expiration of these transition services, we may not be able to adequately replace those resources or replace them at the same cost. We also may not be able to successfully put in place the financial, operational and managerial resources necessary to operate as a public company or that we will be able to be profitable doing so. Any failure or significant downtime in our own financial or administrative systems or in Elan’s financial or administrative systems during the transition period could impact our results or prevent us from performing other administrative services and financial reporting on a timely basis and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject as a publicly traded company. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Elan; however, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We are subject to the reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, we expect that we will need to upgrade our systems, including information technology, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional legal, accounting and finance staff. We expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. In addition, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. Our management will be responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 28 Table of Contents assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because: • our historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Elan, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and • subsequent to the completion of the separation and distribution, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than Elan’s cost of capital prior to the separation and distribution because Elan’s current cost of debt will likely be lower than ours; and • our historical financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to incur in the future as a result of our separation from Elan, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed business as a result of the separation from Elan and from reduced economies of scale. We are also responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, public company, including costs related to corporate governance and compliance with NASDAQ and SEC rules. Prior to the separation and distribution, our business was operated by Elan as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Elan or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions and external reporting. Our historical financial results include allocations of corporate expenses from Elan for these and similar functions. These allocations of cash and non-cash expenses are likely to be less than the comparable expenses we expect to incur as a separate publicly traded company, which are estimated to be between $2 million and $4 million higher per year than the annualized allocated expenses for the latest interim period, based on currently anticipated activities. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Selected Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, we will incur costs and expenses, including professional fees, to comply with Irish corporate and tax laws and financial reporting requirements and costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding the meetings of our board of directors in Ireland. There can be no assurance that these costs will not exceed the costs historically borne by Elan and those allocated to us in connection with the separation. The agreements we have entered into with Elan involve conflicts of interest and therefore may have materially disadvantageous terms to us. We have entered into certain agreements with Elan, including the Demerger Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Transitional Services Agreement, Research and Development Services Agreement and the Subscription and Registration Rights Agreement, which set forth the main terms of the separation and provide a 29 Table of Contents framework for our initial relationship with Elan. These agreements may have terms that are materially disadvantageous to us or are otherwise not as favorable as those that might be negotiated between unaffiliated third parties. We expect that we will be treated as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders. Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. A non-U.S. corporation will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which, after taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and certain subsidiaries pursuant to the applicable “look through” rules, either (i) 75 percent or more of such corporation’s gross income is passive income, or (ii) 50 percent or more of the average value of such corporation’s assets are considered “passive assets” (generally, assets that generate passive income). Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities, net gains from the sale or exchange of property producing such income and net foreign currency gains. Cash and assets readily convertible into cash are categorized as passive assets. For purposes of determining whether a non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC, the corporation will be treated as holding its proportionate share of the assets, and receiving directly its proportionate share of the income, of any other corporation in which such non-U.S. corporation owns, directly or indirectly, more than 25 percent (by value) of the stock. While the determination of PFIC status for any taxable year is very fact specific and generally cannot be made until the close of the taxable year in question, we expect to be treated as a PFIC immediately after the distribution and to remain a PFIC in the immediate future. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds our ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC as to such holder in all succeeding taxable years, regardless of whether we continue to meet the PFIC income test or PFIC asset test discussed above. In such case, subject to the discussion below of the mark-to-market election, a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares would be subject to increased tax liability (generally including an interest charge) upon the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or upon the receipt of certain distributions that constitute “excess distributions” under the PFIC rules (generally, the portion of any distributions received by such holder on our ordinary shares in a taxable year in excess of 125% of the average annual distributions received in the preceding three taxable years or, if shorter, such holder’s holding period for our ordinary shares). If we are or become a PFIC, and our ordinary shares are treated as “marketable stock” for purposes of the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares generally could make a mark-to-market election to elect out of the PFIC rules described above regarding excess distributions and recognized gains. In such case, a U.S. holder generally would include in income, as ordinary income, for each taxable year that we are a PFIC the excess, if any, of the fair market value of such holders of our ordinary shares at the end of such taxable year over such holder’s adjusted tax basis in such ordinary shares, and generally would be allowed to take an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of such holder’s adjusted tax basis in our ordinary shares over their fair market value at the end of the taxable year (but only to the extent of the net amount of previously included income as a result of the mark-to-market election). A U.S. holder’s tax basis in our ordinary shares would be adjusted to reflect any such income or loss amounts. Any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares would be treated as ordinary income, and any loss recognized would be treated as ordinary loss to the extent of any net mark-to-market income for prior taxable years. The reduced rates of taxation applicable to qualified dividend income under current law generally would not apply. The mark-to-market election is available only for “marketable stock,” which is stock that is regularly traded other than in de minimis quantities on at least 15 days during each calendar quarter for any calendar year on a qualified exchange or other market as defined in the applicable Treasury regulations. Once made, the election cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS, unless the shares cease to be marketable. Because a mark-to-market election may not be available for equity interests in any lower-tier PFICs that we own, a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares may continue to be subject to the PFIC rules with respect to such holder’s indirect interest in any investments held by us that are treated as an equity interest in a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 30 Table of Contents In addition to the mark-to-market election, a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares may, subject to certain limitations, avoid the PFIC rules described above regarding excess distributions and recognized gains by making a timely qualified electing fund, or QEF, election to be taxed currently on such holder’s pro rata portion of the PFIC’s net capital gains (as long-term capital gain) and other earnings and profits (as ordinary income). However, this option would not be available to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares because we do not intend to prepare, or share, the information that would enable holders to make a QEF election. You should consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences to you of our expected PFIC classification. If there is any change to Irish tax law or the anticipated tax treatment of the distribution was challenged by the Revenue Commissioners of Ireland, relevant Irish holders of our ordinary shares may incur a charge to Irish tax as a result of receiving shares in connection with the distribution. Statements contained in this Annual Report concerning the taxation of Irish holders of our ordinary shares are based on current Irish tax law and the published practice of the Revenue Commissioners of Ireland as of the date of this Annual Report, either of which is subject to change, possibly with retrospective effect. The taxation of the distribution depends on the individual circumstances of the Irish holders of our ordinary. Therefore any investors who are in any doubt as to their tax position (from an Irish perspective) as a result of receiving our ordinary shares in connection with the separation and distribution should consult their own independent tax advisers. No specific confirmation as to the tax treatment of the separation and distribution for relevant Irish holders of our ordinary shares will be sought by Elan. In the event of a successful challenge, Irish holders of our ordinary shares may incur a charge to Irish tax as a result of receiving our ordinary shares in connection with the separation and distribution. Relationships between certain of our executive officers and directors with our principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders and/or present actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest. Certain of our executive officers and directors are former officers and employees of Elan and thus have professional relationships with Elan’s executive officers and directors. Our Chairman of the Board, Lars Ekman, is Elan’s former President of Research and Development and a former member of Elan’s Board of Directors. Our Chief Executive Officer and director, Dale Schenk, has held the position of EVP and Chief Scientific Officer for Elan. Our director, Shane Cooke, is a former director of Elan and Elan’s former Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Head of Elan Drug Technologies. Our director, Richard T. Collier, is Elan’s former Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Our Head of Corporate and Business Development and Secretary, Tara Nickerson, has held the position of Vice President and Head of Business Development for Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a subsidiary of Elan. Our Chief Scientific Officer and Head of Research and Development, Gene Kinney, has held the position of SVP, Pharmacological Sciences for Elan. Our controller and chief accounting officer, John Randall Fawcett, has held the position of Senior Director, Financial Analysis & Planning for Elan. In addition, certain of our other employees and directors have a meaningful financial interest in Elan as a result of their ownership of Elan ordinary shares, options and other equity awards. These relationships may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers face decisions that could have different implications for Elan than for us. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will be exempt from certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging 31 Table of Contents growth companies, including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company, which is defined as a company with annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion, that has been a public reporting company for a period of less than five years, and that does not have a public float of $700 million or more in securities held by non-affiliated holders. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the end of the fiscal year in which the market value of our ordinary shares that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second fiscal quarter, (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more during such fiscal year, (iii) the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period or (iv) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our ordinary shares pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, unlike other public companies, we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “Emerging Growth Companies.” These include, but are not limited to, (i) reduced obligations with respect to the disclosure of selected financial data in registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, (iii) an exception from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and (iv) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As noted above, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We intend to take advantage of such extended transition period. Since we would then not be required to comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of companies that comply with public company effective dates. If we were to elect to comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares A trading market may not develop to provide you with adequate liquidity for our ordinary shares. In addition, the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. Our ordinary shares have been traded on The NASDAQ Global Market since December 21, 2012; however, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will develop or be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which our ordinary shares may trade at. The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our ability to obtain financing as needed; • progress in and results from our planned clinical trials; • failure or delays in advancing our preclinical drug candidates or other drug candidates we may develop in the future, into clinical trials; • results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; 32 Table of Contents • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our company; • public concern over our drug candidates; • litigation; • future sales of our ordinary shares; • general market conditions; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets; • the sale of our shares by some Elan shareholders because our business profile and market capitalization may not fit their investment objectives; • our quarterly or annual results, or those of other companies in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our company and the drug development industry; • natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; and • fluctuations in the budget of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our ordinary shares to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their ordinary shares and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares. In particular, stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, some holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We rely on permitted exemptions from certain SEC and NASDAQ corporate governance standards, which may afford less protection to the holders of our ordinary shares. NASDAQ and SEC rules and regulations generally require all members of the audit committee of a listed company to be “independent directors” as defined thereunder; furthermore, NASDAQ rules also generally require that the compensation committee and the nominating committee of listed companies consist solely of independent directors, and that the majority of a listed company’s board of directors be “independent directors” as defined thereunder. However, these rules are subject to certain “phase-in” periods for newly listed companies. We rely on the phase-in periods for the audit committee, compensation committee and nominating committee that allows each of our committees to include (i) a minimum of one independent member for up to 90 days after our NASDAQ listing and (ii) thereafter a minority of members who are not independent directors until one year following our NASDAQ listing. Furthermore, we rely on the phase-in period for our board of directors to include (i) a minimum of one independent director for up to 90 days after our NASDAQ listing and (ii) thereafter a minimum of two independent directors for up to one year after our NASDAQ listing. Our reliance on these phase-in periods may adversely affect the level of independent oversight over the management of our company and therefore afford less protection to the holders of our ordinary shares. 33 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, shareholders must rely on share appreciation for any return on their investment. We anticipate losing money for the foreseeable future and, even if we do ever turn a profit, we intend to retain future earnings, if any, for the development, operation and expansion of our business. Thus, we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in our ordinary shares will depend upon appreciation in their value and in order to receive any income or realize a return on your investment, you will need to sell your Prothena ordinary shares. There can be no assurance that our ordinary shares will maintain their price or appreciate in value. Your percentage ownership in Prothena may be diluted in the future. As with any publicly traded company, your percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances by for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise. We will need to raise additional capital. If we are able to raise additional capital, we may issue equity or convertible debt instruments, which may severely dilute your ownership interest in us. In addition, we intend to grant stock option awards to our directors, officers and employees, which would dilute your ownership stake in us. The number of shares authorized under our equity plan is 2,650,000. Future sales of our ordinary shares could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. All of our ordinary shares will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act unless the shares are “restricted securities” under the Securities Act or are owned by our “affiliates” as those terms are defined in the rules under the Securities Act. “Restricted securities” and shares held by “affiliates” may be sold in the public market if registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration under Rule 144. Further, we plan to file a registration statement to cover the shares issuable under our equity-based benefit plans. In addition, at December 31, 2012, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Elan held 18% of our outstanding ordinary shares. The ordinary shares held by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Elan are restricted securities, and Elan has agreed to cause the disposition of our ordinary shares as soon as a disposition is warranted consistent with the business purposes for Elan’s retention of our ordinary shares. We have agreed that, upon the request of Elan, we will use our reasonable best efforts to effect a registration under applicable federal and state securities laws of any of our ordinary shares acquired by Elan. The sales of significant amounts of our ordinary shares or the perception in the market that this will occur may result in the lowering of the market price of our ordinary shares. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on US federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to US corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors 34 Table of Contents and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States with respect to defending unwanted takeover proposals and may give our board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors. We are subject to the Irish takeover rules. Under the Irish takeover rules, our board of directors is not permitted to take any action that might frustrate an offer for our shares once our board of directors has received an approach that may lead to an offer or has reason to believe that such an offer is or may be imminent, subject to certain exceptions. Potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issue of shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material acquisitions or disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any earlier time during which our board of directors has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent. These provisions may give the board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors and protect the interests of holders of ordinary shares than would be the case for a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 