Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, before you decide whether to make an investment in our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history as a business development company and have not yet elected to be treated as a RIC, and HCAP Advisors has limited experience managing a business development company, and we may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. We were formed in February 2011 and commenced operations in September 2011. As a result, we are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. In addition, prior to the completion of our initial public offering in May 2013, we did not operate as a business development company and had not qualified to be treated as a RIC, and HCAP Advisors had never managed any business development company. As a result, we have limited operating results under these regulatory frameworks that can demonstrate to you either their effect on our business or our ability to manage our business under these frameworks. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to other investment vehicles managed by HCAP Advisors. Business development companies are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private or thinly traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. We and HCAP Advisors have limited experience operating or advising under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. We are dependent upon our investment adviser’s key personnel for our future success. Our day-to-day investment operations are managed by our investment adviser, subject to oversight and supervision by our board of directors. As a result, we depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the principals of our investment adviser. These individuals have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. If our investment adviser loses the services of these individuals, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. In addition, we can offer no assurance that HCAP Advisors will remain our investment adviser. The investment professionals of our investment adviser may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time. We expect that these investment professionals will continue to dedicate a significant portion of their time to our investment activities; however, they may in the future engage in other business activities which could divert their time and attention from our investment activities. 25 Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships of the principals of our investment adviser, and their inability to maintain or develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that the principals of our investment adviser will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the principals of our investment adviser fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the principals of our investment adviser have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. Our financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to manage our business and our future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage and grow our business. This depends, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, invest in, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our investment adviser’s structuring and execution of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The principals of our investment adviser will have substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory and management agreement. Such demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. In order to grow, our investment adviser will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. However, we can offer no assurance that any such employees will contribute effectively to the work of our investment adviser. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide debt and equity capital primarily to small and mid-sized companies, which may present a greater risk of loss than providing debt and equity capital to larger companies. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in small and mid-sized companies. Compared to larger companies, small and mid-sized companies generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand, compete and operate their business. In addition, many small and mid-sized companies may be unable to obtain financing from the public capital markets or other traditional sources, such as commercial banks, in part because loans made to these types of companies entail higher risks than loans made to companies that have larger businesses, greater financial resources or are otherwise able to access traditional credit sources on more attractive terms. A variety of factors may affect the ability of borrowers to make scheduled payments on loans, including failure to satisfy financial targets and covenants, a downturn in a borrower’s industry or changes in the economy in general. In addition, investing in small and mid-sized companies in general involves a number of significant risks, including that small and mid-sized companies: ● may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; ● typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render small and mid-sized companies more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; ● are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; ● generally have less predictable operating results, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; 26 ● may from time to time be parties to litigation, and our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; ● may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity; and ● may be particularly vulnerable to changes in customer preferences and market conditions, depend on a limited number of customers, and face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources. Any of these factors or changes thereto could impair a small or mid-sized company’s financial condition, results of operation, cash flow or result in other adverse events, such as bankruptcy, any of which could limit a borrower’s ability to make scheduled payments on our loans. This, in turn, could result in losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income and net asset value. There may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Substantially all of our portfolio investments are in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or “GAAP.” Our board of directors utilizes the services of independent valuation firms to aid it in determining the fair value of these securities. The factors that may be considered in fair value pricing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, enterprise value and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results. We could experience fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There may be significant potential conflicts of interest in the future which could impact our investment returns. The investment professionals of our investment adviser may in the future serve as officers, directors, principals, portfolio managers or advisers of or to entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds, accounts or vehicles managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates. Accordingly, they may in the future have obligations to investors in those funds, accounts or vehicles, the fulfillment of which obligations might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. We also note that any investment fund, account or vehicle managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates in the future may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. We intend to co-invest with investment funds, accounts and vehicles managed by our investment adviser where doing so is consistent with our investment strategy as well as applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. Without an exemptive order from the SEC (as described below), we generally will only be permitted to co-invest with such investment funds, accounts and vehicles when the only term that is negotiated is price. When we invest alongside other investment funds, accounts and vehicles managed by our investment adviser, we expect our investment adviser to make such investments on our behalf in a fair and equitable manner consistent with our investment objective and strategies so that we are not disadvantaged in relation to any other future client of our investment adviser. In situations where co-investment alongside other investment funds, accounts and vehicles managed by our investment adviser is not permitted or appropriate, such as when there is an opportunity to invest in different securities of the same issuer, our investment adviser will need to decide whether we or such other entity or entities will proceed with the investment. Our investment adviser will make these determinations based on its policies and procedures, which generally require that such opportunities be offered to eligible accounts on an alternating basis that will be fair and equitable over time. Although our investment adviser will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner in such event, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by such other funds that are consistent with our investment objective. 27 We will need to obtain exemptive relief from the SEC in order to co-invest with such affiliated investment vehicles in some circumstances. If we apply for such relief, there are no assurances that we will receive the requested relief, and any such order will be subject to certain terms and conditions. As a result, our investment adviser may in the future face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities as between us and such other entities. Our incentive fee may induce our investment adviser to pursue speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser may create an incentive for our investment adviser to pursue investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. Our investment adviser will receive the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, the investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser also may induce it to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, such as PIK interest. Under these investments, we would accrue the interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the investment’s term, if at all. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of the incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash and may never receive in cash if the portfolio company is unable to satisfy such interest payment obligation to us. While we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a formal “claw back” right against our investment adviser per se, the amount of accrued income written off in any period will reduce the income in the period in which such write-off was taken and thereby reduce or have the effect of eliminating such period’s incentive fee payment. However, in light of the 2% quarterly hurdle rate relating to the income incentive fee payable to our investment adviser, the reduction in such period’s income incentive fee may not correlate perfectly with the benefit, if any, previously received by the investment adviser with respect to the income incentive fee at the time of the accrual of such income. Finally, the fact that the incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock. Our base management fee may induce our investment adviser to incur leverage. The fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions made by our investment adviser on our behalf, we may not be able to monitor this potential conflict of interest. 28 PIK interest payments we receive will increase our assets under management and, as a result, will increase the amount of base management fees payable by us to HCAP Advisors Certain of our debt investments may contain provisions providing for the payment of PIK interest. Because PIK interest results in an increase in the size of the loan balance of the underlying loan, the receipt by us of PIK interest will have the effect of increasing our assets under management. As a result, because the base management fee that we pay to HCAP Advisors is based on the value of our gross assets, the receipt by us of PIK interest will result in an increase in the amount of the base management fee payable by us. We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds from an offering of our securities on acceptable terms within an attractive timeframe. Delays in investing the net proceeds raised in an offering of our securities may cause our performance to be worse than that of other fully invested business development companies or other lenders or investors pursuing comparable investment strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any investments that meet our investment objective or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds of any offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We anticipate that, depending on market conditions, it may take us a substantial period of time to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of any offering in securities meeting our investment objective. During this period, we will invest the net proceeds of an offering primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency securities, repurchase agreements relating to such securities, and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which may produce returns that are significantly lower than the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. As a result, any distributions that we pay during this period may be substantially lower than the distributions that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. In addition, until such time as the net proceeds of an offering are invested in securities meeting our investment objective, the market price for our common stock may decline. Thus, the return on your investment may be lower than when, if ever, our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to laws and regulations at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our shares of common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the “JOBS Act”, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We cannot predict if investors will find shares of our common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our shares of common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our shares and our share price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We are choosing to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us since our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates and may result in less investor confidence. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (a) the last day of the fiscal year (i) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (ii) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1 billion, or (iii) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (b) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. 29 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control on financial reporting on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company” and because we have an extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Regulations governing our operations will affect our ability to raise, and the method for raising, additional capital, which may expose us to risks. Our business requires a substantial amount of capital. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. We may issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness or preferred stock, and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we collectively refer to as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. Our ability to pay distributions or issue additional senior securities may be restricted if our asset coverage were not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, it will rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure. Preferred stockholders will also have separate voting rights and may have rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. 30 To the extent that we are constrained in our ability to issue debt or other senior securities, we will depend on issuances of common stock to finance our operations. As a business development company, we generally are not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value without first obtaining required approvals of our stockholders and independent directors. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, subjecting them to dilution. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a business development company, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase. Because we borrow money in connection with our investment activities, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. As we use leverage to partially finance our investments, you will experience increased risks associated with investing in our common stock. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not utilized leverage. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not utilized leverage. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net investment income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause our net investment income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. At December 31, 2013, we had $0 of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility with CapitalSource Bank, or the “Credit Facility,” with an annualized interest cost of $0.4 million. In order for us to cover these annualized interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our investments of at least 0.59%. Advances under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (i) LIBOR plus 4.50% and (ii) the maximum rate permitted under applicable law. In addition, the Loan Agreement requires payment of a fee for unused amounts during the revolving period, which fee varies depending on the obligations outstanding as follows: (i) 0.75% per annum, if the average daily principal balance of the obligations outstanding for the prior month are less than fifty percent of the maximum loan amount; and (ii) 0.50% per annum, if such obligations outstanding are equal to or greater than fifty percent of the maximum loan amount. In each case, the fee is calculated based on the difference between (i) the maximum loan amount under the Credit Facility and (ii) the average daily principal balance of the obligations outstanding during the prior calendar month. The Credit Facility is secured by all of the Company’s assets. If we are unable to meet the financial obligations under the Credit Facility, and an Event of Default occurs and is not cured, the lenders under the Credit Facility could exercise their remedies against the Company’s assets and would have a superior claim to such assets over our stockholders. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (net of expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to stockholder -8 % -4 % 0 % 4 % 8 % 1) Assumes (i) $71.4 million in investments at December 31, 2013, (ii) $0 in outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2013, (iii) $89.5 million in net assets at December 31, 2013 and (iv) average cost of funds of 5.75%, which is the estimated borrowing cost under the Credit Facility. 31 All of our assets are subject to security interests under a secured credit facility, and if we default on our obligations under the facility, we may suffer materially adverse consequences, including foreclosure on our assets. As of December 31, 2013, all of our assets were pledged as collateral under our Credit Facility. If we default on our obligations under the Credit Facility, the lenders have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests. If the lenders exercise their right to sell the assets pledged under the Credit Facility, such sales may be completed at distressed sale prices, thereby diminishing or potentially eliminating the amount of cash available to us after repayment of the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility. Such deleveraging of our company could significantly impair our ability to effectively operate our business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in such a circumstance, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the dividends that we have historically paid to our stockholders. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. We leverage our investments with borrowed money and plan to continue doing so. As a result our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. Thus, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our company or the removal of our incumbent directors. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third-party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for our common stock. The investment advisory and management agreement with our investment adviser and the administration agreement with our administrator were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The investment advisory and management agreement with our investment adviser and the administration agreement with our administrator were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to our investment adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with JMP Group and its respective affiliates. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our securities. Nevertheless, the changes may adversely affect our business and affect our ability to make distributions. 32 The involvement of our investment adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process may create conflicts of interest. Our portfolio investments are generally not in publicly traded securities. As a result, the values of these securities are not readily available. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from our investment adviser prepare portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. The participation of our investment adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process could result in a conflict of interest as our investment adviser’s management fee is based on our gross assets. Our investment adviser has the right to resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our investment adviser has the right, under the investment advisory and management agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. 33 If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. We may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company.” We believe that most of the subordinated and senior debt investments that we intend to target should constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position). A failure on our part to maintain our qualification as a business development company would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we fail to continuously qualify as a business development company, we might be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. For additional information on the qualification requirements of a business development company, see the disclosure under the caption “Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company.” We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. As a regulated investment company, we will be required to distribute annually at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses to maintain our eligibility for regulated investment company tax treatment. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in taxable income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as contracted payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. The increases in loan balances as a result of contracted payment-in-kind arrangements will be included in income in advance of receiving cash payment, and will be separately identified on our statements of cash flows. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Any warrants that we receive in connection with our debt investments will generally be valued as part of the negotiation process with the particular portfolio company. As a result, a portion of the aggregate purchase price for the debt investments and warrants will be allocated to the warrants that we receive. This will generally result in our debt instruments having “original issue discount” for tax purposes, which we must recognize as ordinary income as such original issue discount accrues regardless of whether we have received any corresponding payment of such interest. Other features of debt instruments that we hold may also cause such instruments to generate original issue discount. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses to maintain our eligibility for regulated investment company tax treatment. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our assets, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements, we may fail to qualify for regulated investment company tax treatment and thus may become subject to corporate-level income tax. 34 We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify for or maintain our qualification as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code or do not satisfy the annual distribution requirement. In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to a regulated investment company, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements to be relieved of federal taxes on income and gains distributed to our stockholders. • The annual distribution requirement for a regulated investment company will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we will be subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for regulated investment company tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other regulated investment companies, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other regulated investment companies, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of regulated investment company status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for or maintain regulated investment company status or to meet the annual distribution requirement for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders following our election to be treated as a RIC. If additional funds are unavailable or are not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired. In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to a RIC, we intend to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses. As a business development company, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Currently this coverage ratio is 200%. This requirement will limit the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our loan and investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect to be able to borrow and to issue additional debt and equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as a business development company, we generally are not permitted to issue common stock priced below net asset value without stockholder and independent director approval. However, if we were to obtain the necessary approvals to issue securities at prices below net asset value, our stockholders’ investments would experience dilution as a result of such issuance. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease our lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decrease. Risks Relating to Economic Conditions Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets will likely increase and the value of our portfolio will likely decrease during these economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Further, economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. 35 A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even if we had structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. The current state of the economy and financial markets increases the likelihood of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past several years, leading to recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending. Disruptions in the capital markets increased the spread between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. While recent indicators suggest improvement in the capital markets, we cannot provide any assurance that these conditions will not worsen. If these conditions continue or worsen, the prolonged period of market illiquidity may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, to the extent that weak economic conditions continue or worsen, the financial results of small to mid-sized companies, like those in which we intend to invest, may experience deterioration, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting debt service requirements and an increase in defaults. Additionally, the end markets for certain small to mid-sized companies’ products and services have experienced, and continue to experience, negative economic trends. The performances of certain small to mid-sized companies have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by these economic or other conditions, including the small to mid-sized companies in which we may invest. Risks Relating to Our Investments We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We face competition from entities that also make the types of investments that we plan to make. We compete with public and private funds (including other business development companies), commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we do, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. 36 Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Our portfolio consists primarily of directly originated investments in subordinated and senior debt of small to mid-size companies. In addition, we may make non-control, equity co-investments in these companies in conjunction with our debt investments. Subordinated debt investments. We generally structure our subordinated debt investments with a security interest that ranks junior to a company’s secured debt in priority of payment, but senior to a company’s preferred or common stock. As such, other creditors will rank senior to us in the event of insolvency, which may result in an above average amount of risk and loss of principal. Senior debt investments. We invest, to a lesser extent, in senior debt of small and mid-sized companies. Senior debt investments are typically secured by the assets of the portfolio company, including a pledge of the capital stock of the portfolio company’s subsidiaries, and are senior to all other junior capital in terms of payment priority. There is, however, a risk that the collateral securing these loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the portfolio company and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Equity investments. When we invest in subordinated debt or senior debt, we may acquire equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or our investment adviser have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. Although we will be subject to the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a regulated investment company under the Code and have adopted a guideline that we will generally refrain from investing more than 15% of our portfolio in any single industry sector, our portfolio may be subject to concentration risk due to our investment in a limited number of portfolio companies. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. 37 Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair our investment in a portfolio company. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: ● increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage in a portfolio company; ● exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or ● attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to any applicable legal requirements, including the RIC diversification requirements, and the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration or level of risk, either because we prefer other opportunities (or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our RIC tax status). Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by the management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, we do not currently have, or anticipate taking, any controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we will typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and ability to make stockholder distributions and result in a decline in the market price of our shares. We are subject to the risk that the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We expect that our investments will generally allow for repayment at any time subject to certain penalties. When this occurs, we intend to generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in accordance with our investment strategy. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our ability to make, or the amount of, stockholder distributions with respect to our common stock, which could result in a decline in the market price of our shares. 38 Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of the LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. Concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers’ Association, or BBA, in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations and reviews of the framework for the setting of LIBOR by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. In this regard, the recommendation of one governmental committee undertaking such a review will result in the transfer of the administration of LIBOR to NYSE Euronext Rates Administration Limited in early 2014. Actions by the LIBOR Administrator, regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities, as well as the rate of interest charged on our borrowings under the Credit Facility. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities, as well as the rate of interest charged on our borrowings under the Credit Facility. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. We invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we will be required to rely on the ability of our investment adviser’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. These factors could adversely affect our investment returns as compared to companies investing primarily in the securities of public companies. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in subordinated debt and, to a lesser extent, senior debt and equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. Many of the portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as senior debt, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business. 39 Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make to portfolio companies will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount to net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. In addition, if our common stock trades below net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional common stock at the market price unless our stockholders approve such a sale and our independent directors make certain determinations. If our investments do not meet our performance expectations, our stockholders may not receive distributions. We make and expect to continue to make distributions on a monthly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to continue to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, restrictions and provisions in our Credit Facility and any future credit facilities may limit our ability to make distributions in certain circumstances. If we do not distribute annually at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term losses, we will fail to qualify as RIC and will be subject to corporate-level federal income tax, which may reduce the amounts available for distribution. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. 40 The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: ● market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in the lending industry in particular; ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial and operating results; ● loss of a major funding source; ● sales of large blocks of our securities; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● regulatory developments; ● litigation and governmental investigations; and ● economic and political conditions or events. Such fluctuations in the market price and demand for our common stock may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 