Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our capitalization. The risks described below are considered to be the most material. However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below with respect to our businesses give effect to the completion of the Spin-Off and, accordingly, do not include risks with respect to the business of Starz, LLC. Risk Factors Relating to our Businesses The historical consolidated financial information of Liberty is not necessarily representative of Liberty's future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows nor does it reflect what Liberty's financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Starz, LLC was considered disposed of in the first quarter of 2013 with the completion of the Spin-Off and will no longer be included in our financial statements as of that time. Starz, LLC is included in our financial statements as of the year ended December 31, 2012. Additionally, subsequent to December 31, 2012, Liberty acquired additional interests in SIRIUS XM which allows Liberty to control the vote of greater than 50% of SIRIUS XM's outstanding voting common stock. Therefore, in the first quarter of 2013, Liberty will consolidate SIRIUS XM which at December 31, 2012 was an equity method affiliate. As described previously, Liberty is considered the divesting entity in the Spin-Off and treated as the "accounting successor" to Starz for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP due to the relative significance of our company to Starz (which was the legal spinnor) and the continued involvement of senior management with Liberty following the Spin-Off. Liberty will report the historical consolidated results of operations of the Starz, LLC businesses in discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2013. Because the historical consolidated financial information of Liberty includes the results of the Starz, LLC business, it is not representative of Liberty's future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows nor does it reflect what Liberty's financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. See note 1 of the accompanying financial statements for a discussion about the potential impacts on these financial statements of the Spin-Off and the acquisition of a controlling interest in SIRIUS XM. In addition, the Split-Off occured in the third quarter of 2011. Prior to the Split-Off, the assets, liabilities and businesses of our company at that time were part of the larger Liberty Interactive organization. Hence, portions of our company's historical financial information were also extracted from Liberty Interactive's consolidated financial statements for the relevant periods prior to the Split-Off. As a result, our historical financial information may not necessarily reflect what our respective results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we existed as a separate, stand-alone entity pursuing independent strategies during the periods presented. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Financial Statements." As a result of the Spin-Off, we do not have access to the cash flow generated by Starz, LLC. For the past three fiscal years, a significant portion of Liberty's reported total revenue has been generated by the businesses of Starz, LLC. Prior to the Split-Off, Starz, LLC was the second-largest generator of cash flow for Liberty's former parent company, Liberty Interactive (the largest generator being QVC, Inc., which is currently a subsidiary of Liberty Interactive). As a result of the Spin-Off, Liberty does not have access to the cash flow generated by Starz, LLC. Additionally, the remainder of Liberty's businesses which became the businesses of Liberty following the Spin-Off either (i) have historically generated cash flows at a comparatively lower level than that historically generated by Starz, LLC or (ii) do not provide Liberty with access to the cash flow they generate. Thus, as a result of the Spin-Off, Liberty does not have any significant annual operating cash flow.We may be subject to significant tax liabilities related to the Spin-Off. In connection with the Spin-Off, our former parent company, Starz, received an IRS private letter ruling (the “Ruling”) and an opinion of tax counsel, in each case to the effect that the Spin-Off will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). Although the Ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the Ruling does not address certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to Starz and its shareholders as a result of the IRS's ruling policy with respect to transactions under Section 355 of I-21the Code (and instead is based upon representations made by Starz that these requirements have been satisfied), and the continuing validity of the Ruling is subject to the accuracy of representations and factual statements made by Starz to the IRS. Further, an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the conclusions expressed in such opinion could be challenged by the IRS, and a court could sustain such challenge. Under U.S. Treasury Regulations, each member of a consolidated group is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Accordingly, because we were a member of the Starz consolidated group through the date of the Spin-Off, we could be liable directly to the U.S. government for any U.S. federal income tax liabilities resulting from the Spin-Off that are incurred, but not discharged, by Starz. In addition, in connection with the Spin-Off, we and Starz entered into a tax sharing agreement, pursuant to which (i) we are required to indemnify Starz (subject to certain limited exceptions) for taxes and losses resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify as a tax-free transaction described under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and (ii) Starz is required to indemnify our company, for any such taxes or losses that result primarily from the breach of certain covenants made by Starz (applicable to actions or failures to act by Starz and its subsidiaries following the completion of the Spin-Off) or that result from Section 355(e) of the Code applying to the Spin-Off as a result of the Spin-Off being part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire a 50-percent or greater interest (measured by vote or value) in the stock of Starz (or any successor). Our indemnification obligations to Starz are not limited in amount or subject to any cap, and, to the extent we are entitled to indemnification from Starz, we are subject to the risk of non-payment by Starz of its indemnification obligations. If we are required to indemnify Starz under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, or if Starz does not fulfill any tax or indemnification obligations relating to the Spin-Off for which it is responsible under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates depend on their relationships with third party distribution channels, suppliers and advertisers and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations. An important component of the success of our subsidiaries and business affiliates, including TruePosition and SIRIUS XM, is their ability to maintain their existing, as well as build new, relationships with third party distribution channels, including local and national satellite providers, suppliers, manufacturers, retailers and advertisers, among other parties. Adverse changes in existing relationships or the inability to enter into new arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, if at all, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if certain of these parties do not perform in a satisfactory or timely manner, the business of our subsidiaries and business affiliates could be adversely affected. Rapid technological advances could render the products and services offered by our subsidiaries and business affiliates obsolete or non-competitive. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates, including, for example, TruePosition, SIRIUS XM, Live Nation and Barnes & Noble, must stay abreast of rapidly evolving technological developments and offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of their products and services. These subsidiaries and business affiliates must be able to incorporate new technologies into their products and services in order to address the needs of their customers. There can be no assurance that they will be able to compete with advancing technology, and any failure to do so could result in customers seeking alternative service providers thereby adversely impacting our revenue and operating income. The business of SIRIUS XM depends in significant part on the operation of its satellites. As a satellite radio broadcaster, SIRIUS XM's business depends on the lives and proper operation of its satellites. The lives of SIRIUS XM's satellites will vary and depend on a number of factors, including degradation and durability of solar panels, quality of construction, random failure of satellite components (which could result in significant damage to or loss of a satellite), the amount of fuel the satellite consumes and damage or destruction by electrostatic storms, collisions with other objects in space or other events (such as nuclear detonations) occurring in space. In the ordinary course of operation, satellites experience failures of component parts and operational and performance anomalies. Components on SIRIUS XM's in-orbit satellites have failed, and from time to time SIRIUS XM has experienced anomalies in the operation and performance of these satellites. These failures and anomalies are expected to continue in the ordinary course, and SIRIUS XM cannot predict if any of these possible future events will have a material adverse effect on its operations or the life of its existing in-orbit satellites. In addition, Space Systems/Loral has constructed a new satellite for the SIRIUS XM system that is expected to be launched during mid-2013. Satellite launches have significant risks, including launch failure, damage or destruction of the satellite during launch and failure to achieve a proper orbit or operate as planned. SIRIUS XM's agreement with Space Systems/Loral does not protect it against the risks inherent in a satellite launch or in-orbit operations. SIRIUS XM maintains in-orbit insurance policies covering only two of its satellites (its XM-5 and FM-5 satellites). These policies will expire in 2014 and 2015, respectively, and SIRIUS XM may not renew these in-obit insurance policies when they expire. Any insurance proceeds will not fully cover SIRIUS XM's losses in the event of a satellite failure or significant degradation in the service provided by such satellites. For example, the policies covering the insured satellites do not cover the full cost of constructing, I-22launching and insuring new satellites, nor will they cover, and SIRIUS XM does not have protection against, business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. SIRIUS XM's insurance contains customary exclusions, material change and other conditions that could limit recovery under those policies. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, the polices are subject to limitations involving uninsured losses, large satellite performance deductibles and policy limits. Interruption or failure of SIRIUS XM's information technology and communications systems could negatively impact its results and brand, and therefore the value of our investment in SIRIUS XM. SIRIUS XM's business is dependent on the operation and availability of its information technology and communication systems and those of certain third party service providers. Any degradation in the quality, or any failure, of SIRIUS XM's systems (due to events such as unplanned outages, natural disasters, technical difficulties or loss of data or processing capabilities) could reduce its revenues, cause it to lose customers and damage its brand. Although SIRIUS XM has implemented practices designed to maintain the availability of its information technology systems and mitigate the harm of any unplanned interruptions, SIRIUS XM does not have complete redundancy for all of its information technology systems, and its disaster recovery planning cannot anticipate all eventualities. SIRIUS XM is involved in continuing efforts to upgrade and maintain its information technology systems, which is costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system enhancements could harm its business and its results of operations. In addition, SIRIUS XM relies on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufactures, distributors and service providers to take, fulfill and handle customer service requests and host certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of SIRIUS XM's internal or external systems could prevent SIRIUS XM from serving customers or cause data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates are subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Providers of internet, telephony and satellite service are subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and other entities and in foreign countries by similar regulators. Such regulation and legislation are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. For example, SIRIUS XM holds various FCC licenses and authorizations to operate commercial satellite radio services in the United States, which are generally granted for a fixed term, and although SIRIUS XM expects that such licenses and authorizations will be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Non-compliance by SIRIUS XM with the FCC's requirements or other conditions or with other applicable FCC rules and regulations could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. In addition, SIRIUS XM is subject to various consumer protection laws, rules and regulations, which are extensive and have developed rapidly, particularly at the state level, and, in certain jurisdictions, cover nearly all aspects of SIRIUS XM's marketing efforts, including the content of its advertising, the terms of consumer offers and the manner in which it communicates with existing and prospective subscribers. Material changes in the law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that the businesses and assets of our subsidiaries and business affiliates will not become subject to increased expenses or more stringent restrictions as a result of any future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. The success of SIRIUS XM and Live Nation, in part, depends on audience acceptance of their programs and services, which is difficult to predict. Entertainment content production, satellite radio services and live entertainment events are inherently risky businesses because the revenue derived from these businesses depends primarily upon the public's acceptance of these programs and services, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a satellite radio program or live entertainment production depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing programs, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In the case of ad-supported programming and satellite radio service, audience size is an important factor when advertising rates are negotiated. Audience size is also an important factor when determining ticket pricing for live entertainment productions. Consequently, low public acceptance of the programs and services offered by SIRIUS XM and Live Nation, which we account for as equity affiliates as of December 31, 2012, could hurt the ability of these companies to maintain rates charged to customers, subscribers and, as applicable, advertisers.I-23The ability of SIRIUS XM to attract and retain subscribers at a profitable level in the future is uncertain. SIRIUS XM spends substantial amounts on advertising and marketing and in transactions with automakers, retailers and others to obtain and attract subscribers, and its ability to retain subscribers, or increase the number of subscribers to its service, in any given period is subject to many factors, including the price of SIRIUS XM' service, the health of the economy, the production and sale of new vehicles in the United States, SIRIUS XM's ability to convince owners and lessees of new and previously owned vehicles that include satellite radios to purchase subscriptions to its service, the effectiveness of its marketing programs, the entertainment value of its programming, and actions by its competitors, such as terrestrial radio and other audio entertainment and information providers. As part of SIRIUS XM's business, SIRIUS XM experiences, and expects to experience in the future, subscriber turnover (i.e., churn). If SIRIUS XM is unable to retain current subscribers at expected rates, or the costs of retaining subscribers are higher than expected, its financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. SIRIUS XM cannot predict how successful it will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a prepaid promotional subscription to its satellite radio service. Average monthly revenue per subscriber, or ARPU, is another key metric used by SIRIUS XM to analyze its business. Over the past several years, SIRIUS XM has focused substantial attention and efforts on balancing ARPU and subscriber additions. Its ability to maintain ARPU over time is uncertain and depends upon various factors, including the value customers receive in SIRIUS XM's service, SIRIUS XM's ability to add and retain compelling programming, the increasing competition SIRIUS XM experiences from terrestrial and Internet radio and other entertainment providers, and pricing and other offers SIRIUS XM may make to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers. If SIRIUS XM is unable to consistently attract new subscribers, and retain its current subscribers, at a sufficient level of revenues to be profitable, the value of its common stock could decline, and without sufficient cash flow it may not be able to make the required payments on its indebtedness and could ultimately default on its commitments. Continuingly weak economic conditions may reduce consumer demand for our products and services. A weak economy in the United States could adversely affect demand for our products and services. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically falls during times of economic instability. A reduction in discretionary spending could adversely affect revenue through potential downgrades by satellite and cable television subscribers and satellite radio subscribers, affecting SIRIUS XM, reduced live-entertainment expenditures, affecting Live Nation and ANLBC, and a slowdown in auto sales (which is an important source of satellite radio subscribers), affecting SIRIUS XM. Accordingly, our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings could be adversely affected to the extent that relevant economic environments remain weak or decline further. We currently are unable to predict the extent of any of these potential adverse effects. The success of ANLBC, in part, depends on its ability to recruit and retain key persons. The financial success of ANLBC is influenced by the record of the Atlanta Braves Major League baseball team during each season, which is directly impacted by their ability to employ and retain top performing players, coaches and managers. We cannot assure you that if the Atlanta Braves Major League baseball team experiences turnover of these key persons, they will be able to recruit and retain acceptable replacements, in part, because the market for such employees is very competitive and limited. The business of SIRIUS XM depends in large part upon automakers. A substantial portion of SIRIUS XM's new subscription growth has come from purchasers and lessees of new and previously owned automobiles. The sale and lease of vehicles with satellite radios is an important source of subscribers for its satellite radio service. SIRIUS XM has agreements with every major automaker to include satellite radios in new vehicles, although these agreements do not require automakers to install specific or minimum quantities of radios in any given period. Automotive production and sales are dependent on many factors, including the availability of consumer credit, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and fuel costs. To the extent vehicles sales by automakers decline or the penetration of factory-installed satellite radios in those vehicles is reduced, subscriber growth for SIRIUS XM' satellite radio services may be adversely impacted. Royalties for music rights, which are paid by SIRIUS XM, have increased and may continue to do so in the future. SIRIUS XM must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, BMI, ASCAP and SESAC. These organizations negotiate with copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. SIRIUS XM has agreements with ASCAP, BMI and SESAC through 2016. There can be no assurance that the royalties SIRIUS XM pays to ASCAP, SESAC and BMI will not increase upon expiration of these arrangements. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, SIRIUS XM pays royalties to copyright owners of sound recordings. Those royalty rates may by established through negotiation or, if negotiation is unsuccessful, by the CRB. Owners of copyrights in sound recordings have created SoundExchange, a collective organization to collect and distribute royalties. SoundExchange is exempt by statute from certain U.S. antitrust laws and exercises significant market power in the licensing of I-24sound recordings. New royalty rates for SIRIUS XM's use of sound recordings during the five-year period beginning in January 2013 were announced by the CRB in December 2012. Under the terms of the CRB's decision, SIRIUS XM will pay a royalty based on gross revenues, subject to certain exclusions, of 9.0% for 2013, 9.5% for 2014, 10.0% for 2015, 10.5% for 2016, and 11% for 2017. The rate for 2012 was 8.0%. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates, in particular SIRIUS XM and Barnes & Noble, face substantial competition, which may increase over time. SIRIUS XM faces substantial competition from other providers of music and talk radio and other audio services and its ability to retain and attract customers is based on its successful programming. SIRIUS XM's subscribers can obtain similar content through terrestrial radio or internet radio services, and a number of automakers and aftermarket manufacturers have introduced factory-installed radios capable of seamlessly accessing internet-delivered auto entertainment and easily connecting to Internet-delivered content on smartphones. Such competition could lower subscription, advertising or other revenue or increase expenses related to marketing, promotion or other expenses, which would lower SIRIUS XM's earnings and free cash flow. Similarly, Barnes & Noble faces competition from traditional and internet retail sources, as well as from other suppliers of digital content. Its retail stores compete primarily on the quality of the shopping and store experience and the price and availability of products, which take into account promotional activities. Barnes & Noble's eBook reader, the NOOK ® , competes with other eBook readers and smart tablets on functionality, consumer appeal, availability of digital content and price. In addition, Barnes & Noble faces competition from large bookstores such as Books-A-Million, wholesalers such as Costco and online retailers such as Amazon.com and Apple. Increases in consumer spending online may significantly affect Barnes & Noble's ability to generate sales in its retail stores. Barnes & Noble also faces competition from a variety of sources with respect to sales of music and DVDs. Increased competition faced by any of our subsidiaries or business affiliates may adversely affect their, and hence our, results of operations, The success of SIRIUS XM, Live Nation and Barnes & Noble, in part, depends on the integrity of their systems and infrastructures and the protection of consumer data. The businesses of SIRIUS XM, Live Nation and Barnes & Noble involve the receipt and storage of personal information about consumers. While the receipt and storage of such information is subject to regulation by international, federal and state law, and although SIRIUS XM, Live Nation and Barnes & Noble may take steps to protect personal information, these companies could experience a data security breach, which could result in a disruption of operations and potential violations of applicable privacy laws and other laws or standards which could result in fines, penalties and/or the loss of consumer trust. We do not have the right to manage our business affiliates, which means we are not able to cause those affiliates to operate in a manner that is favorable to us. We do not have the right to manage the businesses or affairs of any of our business affiliates (those companies in which we have less than a majority voting stake), including Live Nation and Barnes & Noble. Rather, our rights take the form of representation on the board of directors and, in some cases, board committees that supervise management and possession of veto rights over certain significant or extraordinary actions. The scope of our veto rights varies from company to company. Although our board representation and veto rights may enable us to exercise influence over the management or policies of a business affiliate, enable us to prevent the sale of material assets by a business affiliate or prevent a business affiliate from paying dividends or making distributions to its stockholders or partners, they will not enable us to cause these actions to be taken. Our equity method investments may have a material impact on our net earnings. We have investments in Live Nation and other business affiliates, which we account for under the equity method of accounting. At December 31, 2012, SIRIUS XM was treated as an equity affiliate. Under the equity method, we report our proportionate share of the net earnings or losses of our equity affiliates in our statement of operations under "share of earnings (losses) of affiliates," which contributes to our earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes. If the earnings or losses of our equity affiliates is material in any year, those earnings or losses may have a material effect on our net earnings. Notwithstanding the impact on our net earnings, we do not have the ability to cause our equity affiliates to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to their stockholders, including us. In addition, our investment in Live Nation is in publicly traded securities which are not reflected at fair value on our balance sheet and are also subject to market risk that is not directly reflected in our statement of operations. I-25The liquidity and value of our public investments may be affected by market conditions beyond our control that could cause us to record losses for declines in their market value. Included among our assets are equity interests in one or more publicly-traded companies that are not consolidated subsidiaries or equity affiliates, such as Time Warner Inc., Time Warner Cable Inc. and Viacom. The value of these interests may be affected by economic and market conditions that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to liquidate these interests without adversely affecting their value may be limited. No assurance can be made that we will be successful in integrating any acquired businesses. Our businesses and those of our subsidiaries may grow through acquisitions in selected markets. Integration of new businesses may present significant challenges, including: realizing economies of scale; eliminating duplicative overhead; and integrating networks, financial systems and operational systems. No assurance can be made that, with respect to any acquisition, we will realize anticipated benefits or successfully integrate any acquired business with our existing operations. In addition, while we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies' disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting (as required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations) until we have fully integrated them.We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. In connection with the Spin-Off, Starz, LLC distributed approximately $1.8 billion in cash to Liberty, of which $600 million was distributed in the third and fourth quarters of 2012. Due to the size and nature of our consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 (other than Starz, LLC), ANLBC and TruePosition, together with their assets and operating cash flow, would be insufficient to support any significant financing in the future. In addition, although we will begin consolidating SIRIUS XM in the first quarter of 2013, we will not have access to the cash flow of SIRIUS XM. Hence, our ability to obtain significant financing in the future, on favorable terms or at all, may be limited. If debt financing is not available to us in the future, we may obtain liquidity through the sale or monetization of our available for sale securities, or we may issue equity securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. If we are unable to obtain sufficient liquidity in the future, we may be unable to develop our businesses properly, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.SIRIUS XM's indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and could limit its ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry. As of December 31, 2012, SIRIUS XM had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.5 billion of indebtedness. SIRIUS XM also has entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions for $1.25 billion, which had not been drawn upon as of December 31, 2012. SIRIUS XM's indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it increases its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requires it to dedicate a portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, marketing and other general corporate activities; limits its ability to borrow additional funds or make capital expenditures; limits its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the audio entertainment industry; and may place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to other competitors. The instruments governing SIRIUS XM's indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on its ability to incur more debt, exceed a specified leverage ratio, pay dividends, make distributions, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into sale lease-back transactions, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets. Failure to comply with the covenants associated with SIRIUS XM's indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause SIRIUS XM to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for its business or assets. I-26Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common StockTransactions in our common stock by our insiders could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of or hedging transactions, such as collars, in our shares by our Chairman of the Board or any of our other directors or executive officers could cause a perception in the marketplace that our stock price has peaked or that adverse events or trends have occurred or may be occurring at our company. This perception could result notwithstanding any personal financial motivation for these insider transactions. As a result, insider transactions could depress the market price for shares of one or more series of our common stock.Our company has overlapping directors and management with Liberty Interactive and one overlapping director with Starz, which may lead to conflicting interests. As a result of the Spin-Off and the Split-Off, most of the executive officers of Liberty also serve as executive officers of Liberty Interactive, and there is significant board overlap between our company and Liberty Interactive. Following the Spin-Off, John C. Malone is the Chairman of the Board of our company and Liberty Interactive. Gregory B. Maffei is the Chief Executive Officer of our company and Liberty Interactive and serves on the boards of directors of each of our company, Liberty Interactive and Starz, where he serves as the Chairman of the Board of Starz. None of Liberty, Starz and Liberty Interactive has any ownership interest in any of the others. Our executive officers and members of our company's board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at Liberty Interactive or Starz have fiduciary duties to that company's stockholders. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting more than one of the companies to which they owe fiduciary duties. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when Liberty or Liberty Interactive looks at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for each of them. Moreover, most of our company's directors and officers continue to own Starz and Liberty Interactive stock and options to purchase Starz stock and Liberty Interactive stock. These ownership interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the applicable individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company, Starz and/or Liberty Interactive. Any potential conflict that qualifies as a "related party transaction" (as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K) is subject to review by an independent committee of the applicable issuer's board of directors in accordance with its corporate governance guidelines. Any other potential conflicts that arise will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each issuer. From time to time, we may enter into transactions with Liberty Interactive or Starz and/or their subsidiaries or other affiliates. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to our company, Starz, Liberty Interactive or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officer or director. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders.It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our restated charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include:•authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock, a Series B common stock that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A common stock that entitles the holder to one vote per share, and a Series C common stock that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holder to no voting rights; I-27•classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; •limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;•requiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 66 2 / 3 % of our aggregate voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our restated charter; and •the existence of authorized and unissued stock, including "blank check" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to persons friendly to our then current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of our company. In addition, our chairman, John C. Malone, beneficially owns shares representing the power to direct approximately 40% of the aggregate voting power in our company, due to his beneficial ownership of approximately 88% of the outstanding shares of LMCB as of January 31, 2013.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.