D. Risk FactorsOur assets are primarily engaged, or intended to engage, in offshore contract drilling for the oil and gas industry in harsh environments in the territorial waters and outer continental shelf jurisdiction of Norway, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, the Netherlands, the east coast of Greenland, Russia (west of the island of Diksonskiy) and all countries within the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia, which we refer to as the "North Atlantic Region," including ultra-deepwater environments. The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the market and ownership of our securities. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash available for the payment of dividends, or the trading price of our common shares. Unless otherwise indicated, all information concerning our business and our assets is as of December 31, 2015. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.7Risks Relating to Our CompanyOur business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry.The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect our customers’ drilling programs. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect the level of activity and demand for drilling units.Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following:•worldwide production and demand for oil and gas and geographical dislocations in supply and demand;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas;•expectations regarding future energy prices and production;•advances in exploration, development and production technology;•the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain levels and pricing;•the level of production in non-OPEC countries;•international sanctions on oil-producing countries, or the lifting of such sanctions;•government regulations, including restrictions on offshore transportation of oil and natural gas;•local and international political, economic and weather conditions;•domestic and foreign tax policies;•the development and exploitation of alternative fuels and unconventional hydrocarbon production, including shale;•worldwide economic and financial problems and the corresponding decline in the demand for oil and gas and, consequently, our services;•the policies of various governments regarding the exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves, accidents, severe weather, natural disasters and other similar incidents relating to the oil and gas industry; and•the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, eastern Europe or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, Europe or elsewhere.In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including:•the availability of competing offshore drilling units;•the availability of debt financing on reasonable terms;•the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services;•oil and gas transportation costs;•the level of rig operating costs, including crew and maintenance;•the discovery of new oil and gas reserves;•the political and military environment of oil and gas reserve jurisdictions; and•regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling.Any of these factors could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations.The current downturn in activity in the oil and gas drilling industry has had and is likely to continue to have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.The oil and gas drilling industry is cyclical, and the industry is currently in a downcycle. The price of Brent crude has fallen from $115 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $30 per barrel in January 2016. As of March 31, 2016, the price of Brent crude was approximately $39.60 per barrel. The significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices is expected to continue to reduce many of our customers' demand for our services in 2016 due to significant decreases in budgeted expenditures for offshore drilling. Declines in capital spending levels, coupled with additional newbuild supply, have and are likely to continue to put significant pressure on dayrates and utilization. The decline and the perceived risk of a further decline in oil and/or gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to further reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our services may further decline and revenues may continue to be adversely affected through lower drilling unit utilization and/or lower dayrates. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, have affected and could continue to negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices have resulted in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies’ capital expenditure budgets are subject to cash flow from such activities and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. As a result of the low commodity prices, the majority of exploration and production companies have announced 2016 capital expenditure budgets with significant reductions in capital spending from prior years. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry that often results in drilling units, particularly older 8and less technologically advanced drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. In response to the recent decrease in the prices of oil and gas, a number of our oil and gas company customers have recently announced decreases in budgeted expenditures for offshore drilling. Any future decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and results of operations.We may not be able to set profitable utilization and dayrates or delay entry of newbuild drilling units into our active fleet.During the recent period of high utilization and high dayrates, which we believe ended in early 2014, industry participants increased the supply of drilling rigs by ordering new drilling rigs, particularly in the ultra-deepwater segment of the industry. Historically, this has resulted in an over-supply of drilling rigs and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and dayrates when the drilling rigs have entered the market. The worldwide fleet of ultra-deepwater floaters consisted of 165 rigs (61 semi-submersibles and 104 drillships) as of March 31, 2016. As of the same date, an additional 13 semi-submersibles and 43 ultra-deepwater drillships were under construction or on order, which would bring the total ultra-deepwater floater fleet to 221 rigs by January 2020, assuming no reduction in the total fleet size through the retirement of drilling units or otherwise. Rigs, such as ours, operating in harsh environments, such as the North Sea, Barents Sea, West of Shetland, Greenland and other similar locations require specialized capabilities related to motion, wind resistance, insulation and heat tracing. As of March 31, 2016, 78 floaters and 75 jack-ups were capable of operations in harsh environments with an additional 11 such harsh environment floaters and 31 jack-ups under construction or on order.A relatively large number of the drilling rigs currently under construction, including ten harsh environment floaters and 26 harsh environment jack-ups, have not been contracted for future work, and a number of units in the existing worldwide fleet are currently off-contract. The supply of available uncontracted units is intensifying price competition as scheduled delivery and redelivery dates occur and additional contracts terminate without renewal, which will continue to reduce dayrates as the active fleet grows. Rig owners are bidding for available work extremely competitively with a focus on utilization over returns, which has driven rates down to or below cash breakeven levels. Any reductions in drilling activity by our customers may not be uniform across different geographic regions. Locations where costs of drilling and production are relatively higher, such as Arctic, harsh environment or deepwater locations where we operate, may be subject to greater reductions in activity. Such reductions in high cost regions may lead to the relocation of drilling units, increasing the supply of available drilling units in regions with relatively fewer reductions in activity. In addition, customers have requested and may in the future request the renegotiation of existing contracts to lower dayrates. In an over-supplied market, we may have limited bargaining power to renegotiate on more favorable terms. Lower utilization and dayrates have affected and will adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for drilling rigs the contracts for which are expiring or are terminated, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.As of March 31, 2016, we had three contracts that are scheduled to expire in 2016, one contract that is scheduled to expire in 2017, and one contract that is scheduled to expire in 2019, excluding options granted to our customers to extend the term of their contracts. Our ability to renew expiring contracts or obtain new contracts will depend on the prevailing market conditions at the time, which may vary among different geographic regions, different types of drilling units, and specific customers. For example, the West Navigator, following the expiration of its previous drilling contract in December 2014, remained off-hire for the first quarter 2015, and the contract with Rosneft which had been secured for the West Navigator was terminated. If we are not able to obtain new contracts in direct continuation with existing contracts, or if new contracts are entered into at dayrates substantially below the existing dayrates or on terms otherwise less favorable compared to existing contracts terms, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We may also be required to accept more risk in areas other than price to secure a contract which risk we may be unable to push down to other contractors, are unable or unwilling at competitive prices to insure against and which therefore have to be managed by applying other controlsThe offshore drilling markets in which we compete experience fluctuations in the demand for drilling services, as measured by the level of exploration and development expenditures and supply of capable drilling equipment. The existing drilling contracts for our drilling rigs currently employed are scheduled to expire from July 2016 to May 2019 (excluding any potential future Rosneft contracts, and any options to extend) if such contracts are not earlier terminated. Upon the expiration or termination of their current contracts, we may not be able to obtain contracts for our drilling rigs currently employed and there may be a gap in employment of the rigs between current contracts and subsequent contracts. In particular, if, as is presently the case, oil and gas prices are low, or it is expected that such prices will decrease in the future, at a time when we are seeking to arrange contracts for our drilling rigs, we may not be able to obtain drilling contracts at attractive dayrates or at all.If the dayrates that we receive for the reemployment of our current drilling rigs are less favorable, we will recognize less revenue from their operations. Our ability to meet our cash flow obligations will depend on our ability to consistently secure drilling contracts for our drilling rigs at sufficiently high dayrates. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. If oil and gas prices remain low and/or if companies do not continue to increase exploration, development and production expenditures, we may have difficulty securing drilling contracts, or we may be forced to enter into contracts at unattractive dayrates, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.Our contract backlog for our fleet of drilling rigs may not be realized.As of March 31, 2016, our contract backlog was approximately $630 million. The contract backlog presented in this Annual Report and our other public disclosures is only an estimate. The actual amount of revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will be different from the contract backlog projections due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, downtime and other events within or beyond our control. In addition, we or our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including adverse market conditions, such as the current environment, resulting in lower dayrates.9Compensation under our drilling contracts is based on daily performance and/or availability of each drilling rig in accordance with the requirements specified in the applicable drilling contract. For instance, when our drilling rigs are idle, but available for operation, our customers are generally entitled to pay a waiting rate lower than the operational rate.Several factors could cause an interruption of operations, including:•breakdowns of equipment and other unforeseen engineering problems;•failure by our employees or contractors to operate critical equipment on the drilling rigs;•work stoppages, including labor strikes;•shortages of material and skilled labor;•delays in repairs by suppliers;•surveys by government and maritime authorities;•periodic classification surveys;•severe weather, strong ocean currents or harsh operating conditions; and•force majeure events.In addition, if our drilling rigs are taken out of service for maintenance and repair for a period of time exceeding the scheduled maintenance periods set forth in our drilling contracts, we will not be entitled to payment of dayrates until the relevant rig is available for deployment. If the interruption of operations were to exceed a determined period due to an event of force majeure, our customers have the right to pay a rate (the “force majeure rate”) that is normally significantly lower than the waiting rate for a period of time, and, thereafter, may terminate the drilling contracts related to the subject rig. For more details on our drilling contracts, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Drilling Contracts.” Suspension of drilling contract payments, prolonged payment of reduced rates or termination of any drilling contract agreements as a result of an interruption of operations as described herein could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.The market value of our current drilling rigs and those we acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to record impairment losses, or incur realized losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values.During the year ended December 31, 2015, the estimated value of our drilling units, based on broker valuations, decreased by approximately 29%. If the offshore contract drilling industry continues to suffer adverse developments, the fair market value of our drilling rigs may decline further. The fair market value of the drilling rigs that we currently own, or may acquire in the future, may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including:•general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore contract drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies;•types, sizes and ages of drilling rigs;•supply and demand for drilling rigs;•costs of newbuildings;•prevailing level of drilling services contract dayrates;•governmental or other regulations; and•technological advances.Additionally, if we sell one or more of our drilling rigs at a time when drilling rig prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the sale price may be less than the drilling rig’s carrying value in our Consolidated Financial Statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if drilling unit values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our Consolidated Financial Statements, which could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Please see “—The current downturn in activity in the oil and gas drilling industry has had and is likely to continue to have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.”The market value of our drilling units may fall, which may impact our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Please see "—We may not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt or flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities, and Seadrill may not honor its guarantee of our debt." If the market value of our drilling units falls, we may also be required to, among other things, make prepayments on certain of our secured credit facilities, which may adversely impact our liquidity. Please see "—We may be unable to comply with covenants in our credit facilities or any future financial obligations that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which could result in a default under the terms of these agreements, which could accelerate our repayment of funds that we have borrowed."A reduction in the market value of our drilling units could lead to the recognition of further impairment charges on, among other things, our drilling units if future cash flow estimates, based on information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these drilling units or goodwill may not be recoverable. For example, as noted below, we have recognized an impairment loss of $82 million on the West Rigel for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, if the market value of our drilling units decreases, and we sell any drilling unit at a time when prices for drilling units have fallen, such a sale may result in a loss, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Please see "—The decreasing value of our drilling units could result in impairment charges or impact our ability to incur debt under our debt financing agreements" below.10The decreasing value of our drilling units could result in impairment charges or impact our ability to incur debt under our debt financing agreements.During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded an impairment charge for goodwill of $480.6 million, due to declining dayrates and our future expectations for dayrates in the sector. Since recognizing this impairment charge, we no longer retain any goodwill on our balance sheet. In addition, we have recognized an impairment loss of $82 million on the West Rigel for the year ended December 31, 2015. In the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges to other assets. Such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. In addition, such impairment charges could adversely impact our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including meeting financial ratios and tests in those agreements. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, a default could occur under the terms of those agreements.We may not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt or flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities, and Seadrill may not honor its guarantee of our debt.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $2.4 billion in interest-bearing debt at an average annual interest rate of 4.4%, of which $1.6 billion was secured by, among other things, liens on our drilling units. In addition, Seadrill guarantees our NOK 1,500 million senior unsecured bond, $2,000 million Senior Secured Credit Facility, and $475 million secured term loan. Our current and future indebtedness could also affect our future operations, as a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes. Covenants contained in our debt agreements require Seadrill to meet certain financial tests and non-financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business or economic conditions, may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities, and may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to grow our business and to fund capital expenditures. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, dilution to the holdings of existing shareholders may result. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our newbuilding projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we are highly dependent on Seadrill and its affiliates to assist us in operating. Any inability of Seadrill or its associates to honor its guarantees of our debt or provide us with sufficient liquidity could negatively impact our business. Please see "—We are a holding company dependent on our subsidiaries and certain affiliates of Seadrill, including Seadrill Management AS, or Seadrill Management, to assist us in operating and satisfying our financial obligations" below. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent that we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity, we may need to refinance our debt, raise new debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. Please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.”We are a holding company dependent on our subsidiaries and certain affiliates of Seadrill, including Seadrill Management Limited, or Seadrill Management, to assist us in operating and satisfying our financial obligations.We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all directly and indirectly wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations in the future depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate profits available for distribution to us. Our ability to enter into new drilling contracts and expand our customer and supplier relationships also depends largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Seadrill and its reputation and relationships in the offshore drilling industry. If Seadrill suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to:•renew existing drilling contracts upon their expiration;•obtain new drilling contracts;•efficiently and productively carry out our drilling activities;•successfully interact with shipyards;•obtain financing and maintain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; or•maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties.Pursuant to a services agreement between us and Seadrill Management, or the Services Agreement, Seadrill Management provides us with treasury and financial advisory services, insurance placement and building supervisory services. We also receive corporate, secretarial and certain other administrative services relating to the jurisdiction of Bermuda from Frontline Management (Bermuda) Ltd. under the Services Agreement with Seadrill Management. In addition, we receive management services from Seatankers Management Norway AS. In addition, pursuant to our cooperation agreement with Seadrill, or the Cooperation Agreement, we have the right of first refusal to participate in any business opportunity identified by Seadrill for drilling activities in the North Atlantic Region and have provided Seadrill with a right of first refusal to participate in any business opportunity identified by us for drilling activities outside the North Atlantic Region. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these agreements. Our business will be harmed if Seadrill and its affiliates fail to perform satisfactorily under these agreements, if they cancel their agreements with us or if they stop providing these services to us. Please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.”11Although Seadrill has historically provided us with significant financial resources, Seadrill may diminish or cease providing such financial resources in the future. If Seadrill were to reduce its ownership in us to a minority interest, we can provide no assurance that Seadrill would continue to provide support and management services to us, and we can provide no assurance that we would be able to replace Seadrill’s support and services with the support and services of a third party that would be of the same quality or at the same cost. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance requirements, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to comply with covenants in our credit facilities or any future financial obligations that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which could result in a default under the terms of these agreements, which could accelerate our repayment of funds that we have borrowed.Our debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prohibit or otherwise limit our ability to, among other things:•enter into other financing arrangements;•incur additional indebtedness;•create or permit liens on our assets;•sell our drilling rigs or the shares of our subsidiaries;•make investments;•change the general nature of our business;•pay dividends to our shareholders;•change the management and/or ownership of the drilling rigs;•make capital expenditures; and•compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous restrictions.Therefore, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may limit our long term ability to pay dividends to you, if we determine, and are able, to do so in the future, finance our future operations or capital requirements, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants, including financial ratios and tests, contained in our financing agreements is dependent on our future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The financial covenants in our NOK 1,500 Million Senior Unsecured Bond, our $2,000 Million Senior Secured Credit Facility and our Sale and Leaseback Agreement with Ship Finance were amended replacing our independent financial covenants by the standard financial covenants of our majority shareholder, Seadrill, and to add Seadrill as guarantor of the debt. We or Seadrill may seek and obtain waivers or amendments from our lenders with respect to the restrictions and covenants contained in our debt agreements. If we or Seadrill were to fail to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreement and we or Seadrill, as applicable, are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from our lender for such noncompliance, there could be a default under our financing agreements. We have no ability to control Seadrill's compliance with its financial covenants. In addition, if the market value of any of our drilling rigs declines, or if market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability and Seadrill's ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we or Seadrill are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend and/or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. We also pledge our drilling rigs as security for our indebtedness. If our lenders were to foreclose on our drilling rigs in the event of a default, this may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. In addition, all of our loan agreements contain cross-default provisions, meaning that if we are in default under one of our loan agreements, amounts outstanding under our other loan agreements may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets may be insufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that we find are favorable or acceptable. Moreover, in connection with any further waivers of or amendments to our credit facilities that we may obtain, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us or modify the terms of our existing credit facilities. Any of these events may further restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our common shares, make capital expenditures or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. Please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on our liquidity outlook and financial covenants, including details of the covenant amendments obtained in April 2016.Failure to comply with covenants and other provisions in our existing or future debt agreements, including the senior unsecured notes, could result in cross-defaults under our existing debt agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on us.Our existing debt agreements contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered if we default under the terms of our existing or future financing agreements. Please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In the event of a default by us under one of our debt agreements, the lenders under our existing debt agreements could determine that we are in default under our other financing agreements. This could result in the acceleration of the maturity of such debt under these agreements and the lenders thereunder may foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt, including our drilling rigs, even if we were to subsequently cure such default. In the event of such acceleration and foreclosure, we might not have sufficient funds or other assets to satisfy all of our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and would significantly reduce our ability, or make us unable, to pay dividends to our shareholders for so long as such default is continuing. In addition, we are subject to certain financial and restrictive covenants contained in the indenture relating to the $600 Million 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2019, or the Senior Unsecured Notes, which, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends, incur indebtedness, incur liens, and make certain investments. In addition, the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes contains other customary terms, 12including certain events of default, upon the occurrence of which, the notes may be declared immediately due and payable. Additionally, we are a “restricted subsidiary” under the indentures relating to Seadrill’s $1,000 million 5 5/8% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500 million 6 1/8% Senior Notes due 2020. While we are not a guarantor of the notes or a party to the indentures thereto, Seadrill has agreed to cause us to comport with the restrictions on “restricted subsidiaries” contained in the indentures. Accordingly, Seadrill may use its influence over us to restrict our ability, among other things, to incur additional debt, pay dividends or issue guarantees, if Seadrill is required to do so under the terms of the indentures for the notes. We also consolidate SFL Linus Ltd. into our financial statements as a variable interest entity, or VIE. SFL Linus Ltd. is a subsidiary of Ship Finance, which owns the West Linus. To the extent that SFL Linus Ltd. defaults under its indebtedness and is marked current in its financial statements, we would in turn mark such indebtedness current in our consolidated financial statements. The characterization of the indebtedness in our financial statements as current may adversely impact our compliance with the covenants contained in our existing and future debt agreements. In addition, the financial covenants in our NOK 1,500 Million Unsecured Bond due 2018, our $2,000 Million Senior Secured Credit Facility and our Sale and Leaseback Agreement with Ship Finance were recently amended to replace our independent financial covenants by the standard financial covenants of our majority shareholder, Seadrill, and to add Seadrill as guarantor of the debt. If Seadrill were to fail to comply with such financial covenants, there could be a default under our financing agreements. We have no ability to control Seadrill's compliance with its financial covenants.We currently derive all of our revenue from four customers, and the loss of any of these customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow.We currently derive all of our revenues and cash flow from four customers. Among our four customers for the year ending December 31, 2015, Statoil accounted for 44%, ExxonMobil accounted for 25%, Conoco Phillips accounted for 18% and Total accounted for 13% of our total revenues. Among our six customers for the year ended December 31, 2014, Statoil accounted for 38%, ExxonMobil accounted for 13%, Shell accounted for 12%, Total accounted for 12%, KMNG accounted for 11%, and Conoco Phillips accounted for 8% of our total revenues. All of our drilling contracts have fixed terms, but may be terminated early due to certain events or we may be unable to realize revenue under such contracts in the event of unanticipated developments, such as the deterioration in the general business or financial condition of a customer, resulting in its inability to meet its obligations under our contracts.If any of our drilling contracts are terminated, we may be unable to re-deploy the drilling rig subject to such terminated contract on terms as favorable to us as our current drilling contracts. This may cause us to receive decreased revenues and cash flows than we would have otherwise earned. The loss of any customers, drilling contracts or drilling rigs, or a decline in payments under any of our drilling contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.In addition, our drilling contracts subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the offshore drilling industry, prevailing prices for oil and gas, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the dayrates received for specific types of drilling rigs and the level of expenses necessary to maintain drilling activities. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our customers may no longer need a drilling rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable drilling rig at a lower dayrate. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we could sustain losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.Our international operations in the offshore drilling sector involve additional risks, which could adversely affect our business.We operate in various regions of the world. As a result of our international operations, we may be exposed to political and other uncertainties, including risks of:•terrorist acts, armed hostilities, war and civil disturbances;•acts of piracy, which have historically affected ocean-going vessels;•significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies;•the seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment;•the repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts;•limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas;•political unrest;•foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations;•the inability to repatriate income or capital;•complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations;•import-export quotas, wage and price controls, and the imposition of trade barriers;•U.S. and foreign sanctions or trade embargoes;•regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions;•changing taxation policies, including confiscatory taxation;•other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; and•governmental corruption.In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to:13•the equipping and operation of drilling units;•the repatriation of foreign earnings and exchange controls;•oil and gas exploration and development;•the taxation of offshore earnings and the earnings of expatriate personnel; and•the use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors.Some foreign governments favor or effectively require (i) the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or to drilling rigs owned by their own citizens, (ii) the use of a local agent or (iii) foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of assets.Newbuilding projects are subject to risks that could cause delays or cost overrunsWe have entered into a construction contract for one semi-submersible rig, the West Rigel. On December 2, 2015 we entered an agreement with Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd., or Jurong, to, among other things, defer our taking delivery of the West Rigel for a period of six months, until June 2016, or the Deferral Period. During the Deferral Period, we will continue to market the rig for employment while the rig remains at the Jurong shipyard in Singapore. If the West Rigel is not contracted for employment on terms acceptable to us or otherwise sold to a third party prior to the expiration of the Deferral Period, NADL and Jurong have agreed to jointly own the rig. For additional information, please see "Item 4. Information on the Company - A. History and Development of the Company." In view of current market conditions, we believe that it is unlikely that we will be able to secure acceptable employment for the rig prior to the expiry of the Deferral Period, and as a result, we expect that the rig will be jointly owned with Jurong. Accordingly, we have classified the West Rigel as “Held for Sale” as of December 31, 2015. To the extent we delay taking delivery of, or are unable to take full delivery of, the West Rigel, we would be prevented from realising potential revenues from this rig, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Any limitation in the availability or operation of our seven drilling rigs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our fleet currently consists of three harsh environment semi-submersibles, one harsh environment deepwater drillship, and three harsh environment jack-up rigs. We also have a contract for the construction of one harsh environment semi-submersible rig, which has been classified as "Held for sale" in our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. If any of our drilling rigs are unable to generate revenues as a result of the expiration or termination of its drilling contracts or sustained periods of downtime, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Some of our customers have the right to terminate their drilling contracts without cause upon the payment of an early termination fee. The general principle is that such early termination fee shall compensate us for lost revenues less operating expenses for the remaining contract period; however, in some cases, such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of the drilling contract. Under certain circumstances our contracts may permit customers to terminate contracts early without the payment of any termination fees as a result of nonperformance, total loss of the rigs, extended periods of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events beyond our control. During periods of challenging market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers seeking to repudiate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our customers’ ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts may also be negatively impacted by the prevailing uncertainty surrounding the development of the world economy and the credit markets. If a customer cancels its contract and we are unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is suspended for an extended period of time or if a contract is renegotiated on different terms, these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay dividends to our shareholders. As of March 31, 2016, we had two units stacked and uncontracted, the West Navigator and the West Venture. For more information regarding the termination provisions of our drilling contracts, see “Item 4. Information on the Company-B. Business Overview-Drilling Contracts.”The provisions of our drilling contracts may not permit us to fully recoup our cost increases in the event of a rise in our expenses.The average remaining contract length as of March 31, 2016, was four months for our floaters and 19 months for our jack-up rigs. The majority of these contracts have dayrates that are fixed over the contract term. In order to mitigate the effects of inflation on revenues from term contracts, some of our drilling contracts include escalation provisions. These provisions allow us to adjust the dayrates based on certain published indices. These indices are designed to recompense us for certain cost increases, including wages, insurance and maintenance costs. However, actual cost increases may result from events or conditions that do not cause correlative changes to the applicable indices. Furthermore, certain indices are updated semi-annually, and therefore may be outdated at the time of adjustment. The adjustments are also typically performed on a semi-annual or annual basis. For these reasons, the timing and amount awarded as a result of such adjustments may differ from our actual cost increases, which could adversely affect our financial performance.Our operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues.Our operating expenses and maintenance costs depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, provisions, equipment, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire offshore drilling industry. During periods after which a rig becomes idle, we may decide to “warm stack” the rig, which means the rig is kept fully operational and ready for redeployment, and maintains most of its crew. As a result, our operating expenses during a warm stacking will not be substantially different than those we would incur if the rig remained active. We 14may also decide to “cold stack” the rig, which the means the rig is stored in a harbor, shipyard or a designated offshore area, and the crew is assigned to an active rig or dismissed. However, reductions in costs following the decision to cold stack a rig may not be immediate, as a portion of the crew may be required to prepare the rig for such storage. Moreover, as our drilling rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in supply of offshore drilling rigs and demand for contract drilling services, which in turn, affect dayrates, and the economic utilization and performance of our fleet of drilling rigs. However, operating costs are generally related to the number of drilling rigs in operation and the cost level in each country or region where such drilling rigs are located. In addition, equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the drilling rig is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Escalation provisions contained in our drilling contracts may not be adequate to substantially mitigate these increased operating and maintenance costs. In connection with new assignments, we might incur expenses relating to preparation for operations under a new contract. The expenses may vary based on the scope and length of such required preparations and the duration of the contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. In situations where our drilling rigs incur idle time between assignments, the opportunity to reduce the size of our crews on those drilling rigs is limited as the crews will be engaged in preparing the drilling rig for its next contract. When a drilling rig faces longer idle periods, reductions in costs may not be immediate as some of the crew may be required to prepare drilling rigs for stacking and maintenance in the stacking period. Should drilling rigs be idle for a longer period, we may not be successful in redeploying crew members, who are not required to maintain the drilling rigs, and therefore may not be successful in reducing our costs in such cases.Our future business depends on the level of oil and gas activity in the North Atlantic Region and our ability to operate outside of Norway and the United Kingdom.Our future business depends significantly on the future level of oil and gas activity in the North Atlantic Region and our ability to expand into North Atlantic Region markets outside Norway and the United Kingdom. Expansion of our business outside Norway and the United Kingdom depends on our ability to operate in other areas of the North Atlantic Region. Any such expansion may be adversely affected by local regulations requiring us to award contracts to local operators and the number and location of new drilling concessions granted by foreign governments. Restrictions or requirements that may be imposed in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to expand our operations within the geographic area where we currently operate, or gain contracts in the North Atlantic Region markets outside of Norway and the United Kingdom, our future business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not commence operations under the drilling contracts with Rosneft Oil Company, and we may not close the acquisition of the land drilling business from Rosneft Oil Company.In July 2014, entered into six offshore drilling contracts with Rosneft. In August, 2014, we entered into an agreement to acquire a significant portion of Rosneft's land drilling fleet in Russia, along with new five-year contracts awarded by Rosneft for the land drilling units being acquired pursuant to a framework agreement, or the Framework Agreement. In November 2014, we and Rosneft agreed to delay to May 2015 the closing of these transactions that are contemplated in the Framework Agreement and on April 16, 2015, we mutually agreed to further extend the date of termination of the Framework Agreement until May 31, 2017, whereby both parties can effectively terminate the Framework Agreement and / or any offshore drilling contracts at any time prior to May 31, 2017 at no cost. In June 2015, the parties agreed to cancel any restrictions of business included within the terms of the Framework Agreement, and replaced this with a requirement for us, subject to applicable law, to inform Rosneft of any material developments affecting us. Due to recent and ongoing developments and events, we believe that it will be extremely unlikely to close these transactions on the same terms contemplated in the executed agreements.Competition within the offshore drilling industry may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies, including Seadrill, that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. Offshore drilling contracts are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis or through privately negotiated transactions. In determining which qualified drilling contractor is awarded a contract, the key factors are pricing, rig availability, rig location, condition and integrity of equipment, its record of operating efficiency, including high operating uptime, technical specifications, safety performance record, crew experience, reputation, industry standing and customer relations. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new drilling rigs with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics in comparison to our drilling rigs, or expand into service areas where we operate. In addition, mergers among oil and gas exploration and production companies have reduced, and may from time to time further reduce, the number of available customers, which would increase the ability of potential customers to achieve pricing terms favorable to them. The offshore drilling industry has historically been cyclical and is impacted by oil and gas price levels and volatility. There have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates, followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates, such as the downturn that we are currently experiencing. Changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of excess rig supply may intensify competition in the industry and result in the idling of older and less technologically advanced equipment. We have idled rigs, and may in the future idle or stack additional rigs or enter into lower dayrate drilling contracts in response to market conditions. We cannot predict when or if any idled or stacked rigs will return to service. When idled or stacked, drilling units do not earn revenues, but continue to require cash expenditures for crews, fuel, insurance, berthing and associated items. As of March 31, 2016, we had two units stacked, the West Navigator and the West Venture. If our lenders are not confident that we are able to employ our assets, we may be unable to secure additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all for the remaining installment payments we are obligated to make before the delivery of our remaining newbuildings and our other capital requirements including principal repayments.Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.15An economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position.We depend on our customers’ willingness and ability to fund operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and gas, and to purchase drilling and related equipment. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. The world economy is currently facing a number of challenges, including the economic slowdown in China. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and profitability, and may have a disproportionate impact on us because we currently operate exclusively offshore in Norway and the United Kingdom. This includes uncertainty surrounding the sovereign debt and credit crises in certain European countries and the continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, including Japan and China. In addition, turmoil and hostilities in Ukraine, Korea, the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries are adding to overall risk. In addition, worldwide financial and economic conditions could cause our ability to access the capital markets to be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could impact our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Worldwide economic conditions have in the past impacted, and could in the future impact, the lenders participating in our credit facilities and our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, a portion of the credit under our credit facilities is provided by European banking institutions. If economic conditions in Europe preclude or limit financing from these banking institutions, we may not be able to obtain financing from other institutions on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, even if conditions outside Europe remain favorable for lending.An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. Such changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Failure to obtain or retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operations.We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor required for our drilling operations has increased in recent years as the number of drilling rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets has increased. If this expansion continues and is coupled with improved demand for drilling services in general, shortages of qualified personnel could further create and intensify upward pressure on wages and make it more difficult for us to staff and service our drilling rigs. Such developments could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of any increased competition for people and risk for higher turnover, we may experience a reduction in the experience level of our personnel, which could lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents.Our labor costs and the operating restrictions that apply to us could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations.The majority of our employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements, mainly in Norway and the United Kingdom. As part of the legal obligations, we are required to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and are restricted in our ability to dismiss employees. In addition, many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to salary negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel costs, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions that could adversely affect our financial performance.An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could hurt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business.Our ability to operate in numerous countries depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for operating our rigs on a timely basis, or for third-party technicians needed for maintenance or repairs, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our drilling contracts, which could allow our customers to cancel the contracts. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Interest rate fluctuations could affect our earnings and cash flow.In order to finance our growth, we have incurred significant amounts of debt. As of March 31, 2016, with the exception of the $600 Million 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2019 (issued in January 2014), and the $125 million related party loan to Ship Finance owed by SFL Linus Ltd, our consolidated variable interest entity, our debt arrangements have floating interest rates. As such, significant movements in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. In order to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we use interest rate swaps to effectively fix a part of our floating rate debt obligations. The principal amount covered by interest rate swaps is evaluated continuously and determined based on our debt level, our expectations regarding future interest rates, our contract backlog and our overall financial risk exposure. As of December 31, 2015, our net effective exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our outstanding debt was $171.2 million, and an increase or decrease in short-term interest rates of one percentage point would increase or decrease our net effective interest expense by approximately $1.7 million on an annual basis. For more information regarding our debt arrangements. Please see “Item 5. Operating Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Fluctuations in exchange rates and non-convertibility of currencies could result in losses to us.16We use the U.S. dollar as our functional currency because the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, our reporting currency is also U.S. dollars. However, as a result of our international operations, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates due to parts of our revenues being received and operating expenses paid in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currently, such currencies include the Norwegian kroner, the British pound sterling, and the Russian ruble. Accordingly, we may experience currency exchange losses if we have not fully hedged our exposure to a foreign currency. For further details about our financial instruments, please see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and “Note 22–Risk Management and Financial Instruments” to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. Certain countries where we may operate, such as Russia, place certain controls over currency exchange and the repatriation of income or capital. To the extent that we undertake future operations in such countries or similar laws are enacted in the countries where we operate, we may be unable to collect revenues earned in such countries.If one of our drilling rigs fails to maintain its class certification or fails any required survey, that drilling rig would be unable to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability.Every offshore drilling rig is a registered marine vessel and must be “classed” by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the drilling rig is “in-class,” signifying that such drilling rig has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the drilling rig’s country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake them on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned. Our drilling rigs are certified as being “in class” by Det Norske Veritas, or DNV, and the relevant national authorities in the countries where our drilling rigs operate. If any drilling rig does not maintain its class and/or fails any periodical survey or special survey, the drilling rig will be unable to carry on operations and will be unemployable and uninsurable, which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry on operations or be employed could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.The use of our drilling rigs may infringe the intellectual property rights of others.The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling rigs and related equipment are owned by our suppliers. In the event that one of our suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned by us, we may lose access to repair services, replacement parts, or could be required to cease use of some equipment. In addition, our competitors may assert claims for infringement of intellectual property rights related to certain equipment on our drilling rigs and we may be required to stop using such equipment and/or pay damages and royalties for the use of such equipment. The consequences of technology disputes involving our suppliers or competitors could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We have provisions in some of our supply contracts for suppliers to provide indemnity to us against intellectual property lawsuits. However, these suppliers may be unwilling or financially unable to honor their indemnity obligations, or the indemnities may not fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. We also have provisions in some of our client contracts to require the client to share some of these risks on a limited basis, but these provisions may not fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes.A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our earnings.We conduct our operations through various subsidiaries in various countries. Tax laws, regulations and treaties are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we may be subject to changing tax laws, regulations and treaties in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, regulations or treaties, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, which such events are beyond our control, may result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our earnings.United States tax authorities may treat us as a “passive foreign investment company” for United States federal income tax purposes, which may have adverse tax consequences to U.S. shareholders .A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC.Based on the current and anticipated valuation of our assets, including goodwill, and composition of our income and assets, we intend to take the position that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. Our position is based on valuations and projections provided regarding our assets and income. While we believe these valuations and projections to be accurate, such valuations and projections may not continue to be accurate. Moreover, as we have not sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this matter, the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, the nature of our operations may change in the future, and if so, we may not be able to avoid PFIC status in the future.If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. holders of our common shares will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those holders make an election available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such holders, as discussed below under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation”), such holders would be 17liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation-United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company” for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to holders of our common shares if we are treated as a PFIC.We depend on directors who are associated with affiliated companies, which may create conflicts of interest, and Seadrill and its affiliates may compete against us.Our principal shareholder is Seadrill. Mrs. Kate Blankenship, Mr. Paul M. Leand Jr, Mr. Orjan Svanevik and Mrs. Georgina Sousa are also directors of Seadrill, and serve as directors of other related companies. The aforementioned directors owe fiduciary duties to both us and other related parties, and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and our customers. In addition, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Seadrill or other related parties than they do for the Company. Such potential conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor.Pursuant to our cooperation agreement, or the Cooperation Agreement, with Seadrill, we have the right of first refusal to participate in any business opportunity identified by Seadrill for drilling activities in the North Atlantic Region and Seadrill has a right of first refusal to participate in any business opportunity identified by us for drilling activities outside the North Atlantic Region. The Cooperation Agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow Seadrill or any of its affiliates to compete with us, and in certain cases Seadrill has provided Seadrill Partners LLC, or Seadrill Partners, with the right to purchase any drilling rig in Seadrill’s fleet in the event that any such rig enters into a contract with a term of five years or more, which could restrict our growth prospects. Please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” Currently, we operate exclusively offshore Norway and the United Kingdom, which have fields that are considered in the industry to be “mature” and as a result, overall activity may decline faster than anticipated.Currently, we operate exclusively offshore Norway and the United Kingdom (excluding any potential future operations pursuant to the Rosneft contracts). Norway and the United Kingdom have fields that are considered in the industry to be “mature” and as a result, the overall activity in such fields may decline faster than anticipated. There are increased costs associated with retiring old North Sea oil and gas installations, which may threaten to slow the development of the region’s remaining resources. We will rely on work for our drilling rigs being available in the regions where we currently operate, or alternatively, expand our area of operations, to be able to secure new contracts for our drilling rigs when the existing drilling contracts expire.We may be subject to litigation, arbitration and other proceedings that could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.We are currently involved in various litigation matters and we anticipate that we will be involved in litigation matters from time to time in the future. The operating hazards inherent in the offshore drilling business expose us to litigation, including personal injury litigation, environmental litigation, contractual litigation with customers, intellectual property litigation, tax or securities litigation, and maritime lawsuits including the possible arrest of our drilling rigs. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter. If we are involved in any future litigation, or if our positions concerning current disputes are found to be incorrect, this may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and available cash, because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with asserting our claims or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management’s attention to these matters. For example, we are currently a defendant in a class action lawsuit alleging that we made certain materially false and misleading statements in our public disclosure, including, among other things, that Seadrill, the Company and certain of their respective executives made materially false and misleading statements in connection with the payment of dividends, the failure to disclose the risks to the Rosneft transaction as a result of various enacted government sanctions and the inclusion in backlog of $4.1 billion attributable to the Rosneft transaction. Although we are vigorously defending this action, we cannot predict the outcome of this case, nor can we estimate the amount of any possible loss. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on these, and other, litigation matters that we are currently involved in, please see “Item 8. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—A. Legal Proceedings.”Risks Relating to Our IndustryOur business and operations involve numerous operating hazards, and our insurance and indemnities from our customers may not be adequate to cover potential losses from our operations.Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the offshore drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch-throughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling requires the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, piracy, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. We customarily obtain contract indemnities from our customers for claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs, and claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life.Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through spillage of hydrocarbons, fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in drilling operations, or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property damage, environmental indemnity and other claims by oil and gas companies. Our insurance policies and drilling contracts contain rights to indemnity that may not adequately cover our losses, and 18we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These are risks associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control of or re-drill the well and associated pollution. However, there can be no assurance that these customers will be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. In addition, a court may decide that certain indemnities in our current or future contracts are not enforceable. For example, in a 2012 case related to the fire and explosion that took place on the unaffiliated Deepwater Horizon Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, or the Deepwater Horizon Incident (to which we were not a party), the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana invalidated certain contractual indemnities for punitive damages and for civil penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act under a drilling contract governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B.Business Overview-Risk of Loss and Insurance Coverage.”If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by our insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, the occurrence could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or profitability. The amount of our insurance may also be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Our insurance coverage will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. Our coverage includes annual aggregate policy limits. As a result, we retain the risk for any losses in excess of these limits. Any such lack of reimbursement may cause us to incur substantial costs. In addition, we could decide to retain more risk in the future. This results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, which are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, or obtain insurance against certain risks.Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs, expose us to liability or limit our drilling activity.Our business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate, including international conventions and treaties, and regional, national, state and local laws and regulations (including those of the International Maritime Organization, European Union, the United Kingdom and Norway). The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and, accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that, for economic, environmental or other policy reasons, curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require us to make significant capital expenditures, such as installation of costly equipment or operational changes, and may affect the resale value or useful lifetime of our rigs. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. Further, our ability to compete in international offshore contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. Offshore drilling in certain areas, including arctic areas, has been curtailed and, in certain cases, prohibited because of concerns over protection of the environment. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations.To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the offshore drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Environmental protection of arctic regions is a particularly sensitive issue in some countries, and may be subject to special additional new regulations. The operation of our drilling rigs will require certain governmental approvals. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. We may not obtain such approvals or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, our customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to our detriment. The amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations.As an operator of mobile drilling rigs, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with spills of oil and other chemicals and substances related to our operations, and we may also be subject to significant fines in connection with spills. For example, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international laws, as well as third-party damages, to the extent that the contractual indemnification provisions in our drilling contracts are not sufficient, or if our clients are unwilling or unable to contractually indemnify us from these risks. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain such indemnities in our future contracts and our clients may not have the financial capability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Also, these indemnities may be held to be unenforceable in certain jurisdictions, as a result of public policy or for other reasons. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time when such acts were performed. The application of these requirements or the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We are subject to complex environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.Our operations are subject to numerous international, national, state and local laws and regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters and the jurisdictions in which our drilling units operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our drilling 19units. These requirements include, but are not limited to the United Nation's International Maritime Organization, IMO, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as MARPOL, including the designation of Emission Control Areas, or ECAs thereunder, the IMO International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 as from time to time amended and generally referred to as SOLAS, the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code, the IMO International Convention on Load Lines in 1966, as from time to time amended, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments in February 2004, or the BWM Convention, and European Union, or EU, regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or implementation of operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lifetime of our drilling units. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our rigs. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations.Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon well and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other similar events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, thus exposing us to further potential financial risk in the event of any such oil or chemical spill in the future.We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, and certificates with respect to our operations, and satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Although our drilling units are separately owned by our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances a parent company and all of the unit-owning affiliates in a group under common control engaged in a joint venture could be held liable for damages or debts owed by one of the affiliates, including liabilities for oil spills under environmental laws. Therefore, it is possible that we could be subject to liability upon a judgment against us or any one of our subsidiaries.Our drilling units could cause the release of oil or hazardous substances. Any releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or occur in protected or sensitive areas where public interest groups or governmental authorities have special interests. Any releases of oil or hazardous substances could result in fines and other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling rigs, clean up the releases, and comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are able to obtain from our customers some degree of contractual indemnification against pollution and environmental damages in our contracts, such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances or the customer may not be financially able to comply with its indemnity obligations in all cases, and we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. In addition, a court may decide that certain indemnities in our current or future contracts are not enforceable. Our insurance coverage may not be available in the future, or we may not obtain certain insurance coverage. Even if insurance is available and we have obtained the coverage, it may not be adequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance underwriters may be unable to pay compensation if a significant claim should occur. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets.Due to concerns over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization, or IMO, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, the emissions of greenhouse gases from ships involved in international transport are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 2005 and pursuant to which adopting countries have been required to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As of January 1, 2013, all ships (including rigs and drillships) must comply with mandatory requirements adopted by the IMO’s Maritime Environment Protection Committee, or the MEPC, in July 2011 relating to greenhouse gas emissions. These requirements could cause us to incur additional compliance costs. In addition, the European Union has indicated that it intends to propose an expansion of the existing European Union emissions trading scheme to include emissions of greenhouse gases from marine vessels.The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris did not result in an agreement that directly limits greenhouse gas emissions from ships.All ships are required to follow the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans, or SEEMP, and minimum energy efficiency levels per capacity mile, outlined in the Energy Efficiency Design Index, or EEDI, applies to all new ships. These requirements could cause us to incur additional compliance costs. The IMO is planning to implement market-based mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships at an upcoming MEPC session. In April 2013, the European Union Parliament rejected proposed changes to the European Union Emissions law regarding carbon trading. The measures would have limited the availability of permits that allow companies to emit greenhouse gases. The European Union is still considering an expansion of 20the existing European Union emissions trading scheme to include emissions of greenhouse gases from marine vessels, including drilling units, and in June 2013, the European Commission issued a memorandum recommending a “gradual approach” starting with a program to monitor, report and verify such greenhouse gas emissions from ships. In April 2015, a regulation was adopted requiring that large ships (over 5,000 gross tons) calling at European Union ports from January 2018 collect and publish data on carbon dioxide emissions and other information. In the United States, the EPA has issued a finding that greenhouse gases endanger the public health and safety and has adopted regulations to limit greenhouse gas emissions from certain mobile sources and large stationary sources. Although the mobile source emissions regulations do not apply to greenhouse gas emissions from drilling units, such regulation of drilling units is foreseeable, and the EPA has in recent years received petitions from the California Attorney General and various environmental groups seeking such regulation. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our assets, and might also require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the IMO, European Union, the United States or other countries where we operate, or any treaty adopted at the international level to succeed the Kyoto Protocol, that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to make significant financial expenditures which we cannot predict with certainty at this time.Additionally, adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. Please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations.”The Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico has and may result in more stringent laws and regulations governing offshore drilling, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.On April 20, 2010, there was an explosion and a related fire on the Deepwater Horizon, an ultra-deepwater semi-submersible drilling rig that is not connected to us, while it was servicing a well in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. This catastrophic event resulted in the death of 11 workers and the total loss of that drilling rig, as well as the release of large amounts of oil into the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, impacting the environment and the region’s key industries. This event was investigated by several federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and by the U.S. Congress, and was also the subject of numerous lawsuits. On January 3, 2013, Transocean Deepwater Inc. agreed to plead guilty to violating the U.S. Clean Water Act and to pay $1.4 billion in civil and criminal fines and penalties for its conduct in relation to the incident. On May 30, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a six-month moratorium on all deepwater drilling in the outer continental shelf regions of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the drilling moratorium, subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements. All drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico must comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule), which took effect October 22, 2012, and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems and various requirements imposed through Notices to Lessees and Operators, or SEMS. Operators were required to implement a SEMS program by November 15, 2011 and submit their first completed SEMS audit to BSEE by November 15, 2013. The original SEMS rule was later modified by the SEMS II final rule which became effective June 4, 2013. SEMS II enhanced and supplemented operators' SEMS programs with employee training, empowering field level personnel with safety management decisions and strengthening auditing procedures by requiring them to be completed by independent third parties. Operators had until June 4, 2014 to comply with SEMS II, except for certain auditing requirements. All SEMS audits had to comply with SEMS II by June 4, 2015. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) imposes additional record keeping obligations concerning occupational injuries and illnesses for Mobile Offshore Drilling Units attached to the outer continental shelf. While we do not currently operate any of our drilling rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, these developments could have a substantial impact on the offshore oil and gas industry worldwide. Governmental investigations and proceedings may result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and substantially stricter governmental regulation of our drilling rigs. For example, Norway’s Petroleum Safety Authority is assessing the results of the investigations into the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and issued a preliminary report of its recommendations in June 2011, and Oil & Gas United Kingdom has established the Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group, which issued its final report on industry practices in the United Kingdom in September 2011. In addition, BP plc, a company not affiliated with us and the rig operator of the Deepwater Horizon, has reached an agreement with the U.S. government to establish a claims fund of $20 billion, which far exceeds the $75 million strict liability limit set forth under the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Amendments to existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and the production of oil and gas, may be highly restrictive and require costly compliance measures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such amended or new legislation or regulations.It is possible in the future for our drilling units to be located in countries that are subject to economic sanctions or other operating restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments, our reputation and the market for our common shares could be adversely affected.In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies such as ours, and introduced limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. On August 10, 2012, the U.S. signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which places further restrictions on the ability of non-U.S. companies to do business or trade with Iran and Syria. Perhaps the most significant provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that prohibitions in the existing Iran sanctions applicable to U.S. persons will now apply to any foreign entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person. These new sanctions were codified within the Iranian Transactions Regulations on or 21about December 26, 2012. The other major provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that issuers of securities must disclose to the Commission in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 if the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. The disclosure must describe the nature and extent of the activity in detail and the Commission will publish the disclosure on its website. The President of the U.S. must then initiate an investigation and determine whether sanctions on the issuer or its affiliate will be imposed. Such negative publicity and the possibility that sanctions could be imposed would present a risk for any issuer that is knowingly engaged in sanctioned conduct or that has an affiliate that is knowingly engaged in such conduct. At this time, we are not aware of any violative activity, conducted by ourselves or by any affiliate, which is likely to trigger a Commission disclosure requirement.Certain of our customers or other parties that we have entered into contracts with may be the subject of sanctions imposed by the United States, the European Union, Norway and / or other international bodies as a result of the annexation of Crimea by Russia in 2014 and the subsequent conflict in eastern Ukraine, or may be affiliated with persons or entities that are the subject of such sanctions. If we determine that such sanctions require us to terminate existing contracts or if we are found to be in violation of such applicable sanctions, our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may suffer reputational harm. In addition, such sanctions may prevent us from closing the previously announced transactions between us and Rosneft, or performing some or all of our obligations under the drilling contracts with Rosneft, which could impact our future revenue, contract backlog, and results of operations.In addition, various U.S. sanctions have certain extraterritorial effects that need to be considered by non-U.S. companies. Moreover, any U.S. persons who serve as officers, directors or employees of our subsidiaries would be fully subject to U.S. sanctions. It should also be noted that other governments are more frequently implementing versions of U.S. sanctions. However, from time to time, we may enter into drilling contracts with countries or government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism where entering into such contracts would not violate U.S. law, or may enter into drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, this could negatively affect our ability to obtain investors. In some cases, U.S. investors would be prohibited from investing in an arrangement in which the proceeds could directly or indirectly be transferred to or may benefit a sanctioned entity. Moreover, even in cases where the investment would not violate U.S. law, potential investors could view such drilling contracts negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares. With the exception of certain drilling contracts between us and Rosneft, we do not currently have any drilling contracts or plans to initiate any drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism.On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the "Joint Plan of Action", or JPOA. Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is only used for peaceful purposes, the United States and the European Union would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the United States and the European Union indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 to July 20, 2014.The JPOA was subsequently extended twice. On July 14, 2015, the P5+1 and the E.U. announced that they reached a landmark agreement with Iran titled the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Nuclear Program, or the JCPOA, which is intended to significantly restrict Iran’s ability to develop and produce nuclear weapons for 10 years while simultaneously easing sanctions directed toward non-U.S. persons for conduct involving Iran, but taking place outside of U.S. jurisdiction and does not involve U.S. persons. On January 16, 2016 (“Implementation Day”), the United States joined the E.U. and the U.N. in lifting a significant number of their nuclear-related sanctions on Iran following an announcement by the International Atomic Energy Agency, or the IAEA, that Iran had satisfied its respective obligations under the JCPOA.U.S. sanctions prohibiting certain conduct that is now permitted under the JCPOA have not actually been repealed or permanently terminated at this time. Rather, the U.S. government has implemented changes to the sanctions regime by: (1) issuing waivers of certain statutory sanctions provisions; (2) committing to refrain from exercising certain discretionary sanctions authorities; (3) removing certain individuals and entities from OFAC's sanctions lists; and (4) revoking certain Executive Orders and specified sections of Executive Orders. These sanctions will not be permanently "lifted" until the earlier of “Transition Day,” set to occur on October 20, 2023, or upon a report from the IAEA stating that all nuclear material in Iran is being used for peaceful activities.As stated above, we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance. However, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our shares. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our shares simply because we may do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our drilling contracts may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us, or our drilling rigs, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our shares may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries.Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations.The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our offshore drilling segment to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the 22United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. U.S. sanctions in particular are targeted against countries (such as Russia, Venezuela, Iran, Myanmar and Sudan, among others) that are heavily involved in the petroleum and petrochemical industries, which includes drilling activities.The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could also result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges.Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or the Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom could result in fines, criminal penalties, drilling contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business.We operate our drilling rigs in a number of countries. Our business with national oil companies, as well as state or government-owned shipbuilding enterprises and financing agencies may put us in contact with persons who may be considered to be “foreign officials” under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom, or the U.K. Bribery Act. We are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and such violations or allegations of such violations might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we may utilize local agents and/or establish entities with local operators or strategic partners. All of these activities may involve interaction by our agents with government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to government officials or other persons in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Consolidation and governmental regulation of suppliers may increase the cost of obtaining supplies or restrict our ability to obtain needed supplies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our offshore drilling operations, including drilling equipment suppliers, caterers and machinery suppliers. The number of available suppliers is limited, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. With respect to certain items, such as blow-out preventers, or BOPs, we are generally dependent upon the original equipment manufacturer for repair and replacement of the item or its spare parts. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling rigs under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby increasing the cost of supplies and/or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. For instance, several drilling companies, including Seadrill, experienced significant interruption of operations in early 2013 as a result of a defective batch of connector bolts procured by a supplier of BOP equipment, and the only source of approved replacement bolts was that same supplier. Similar cost increases or delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our drilling rigs. Furthermore, many of our suppliers are U.S. companies or non-U.S. subsidiaries owned or controlled by U.S. companies, which means that in the event a U.S. supplier was debarred or otherwise restricted by the U.S. government from delivering products, our ability to supply and service our operations could be materially impacted. In addition, through regulation and permitting, certain foreign governments effectively restrict the number of suppliers and technicians available to supply and service our operations in those jurisdictions, which could materially impact our operations.Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours or our customers. Our drilling operations could also be targeted by acts of piracy. In addition, acts of terrorism and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and gas and could affect the markets for drilling services and result in lower dayrates. Insurance premiums could also increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. Increased insurance costs or increased cost of compliance with applicable regulations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.A cyber-attack could materially disrupt our business.We rely on information technology systems and networks in our operations and administration of our business. Our drilling operations or other business operations could be targeted by individuals or groups seeking to sabotage or disrupt our information technology systems and networks, or to steal data. A successful cyber-attack could materially disrupt our operations, including the safety of our operations, or lead to unauthorized release of information or alteration of information on our systems. Any such attack or other breach of our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.23We may not be able to keep pace with the continual and rapid technological developments that characterize the market for our services, and our failure to do so may result in our loss of market share.The market for our services is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in equipment functions and performance. As a result, our future success and profitability will be dependent in part upon our ability to keep pace with technological developments. If we are not successful in acquiring new equipment or upgrading our existing equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to technological developments or changes in standards in our industry, we could lose business and profits. The cost of upgrading our equipment may increase as our fleet ages, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, services or standards that could render some of our services or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.In addition, we currently operate in Norway and the United Kingdom. If we are unable to expand our operations and pursue harsh environment drilling operations in other locations in the North Atlantic Region, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Public health threats could have an adverse effect on our operations and our financial results.Public health threats, such as ebola, influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the Zika Virus, and other highly communicable diseases or viruses, outbreaks of which have from time to time occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations, and the operations of our customers. In addition, public health threats in any area, including areas where we do not operate, could disrupt international transportation. Our crews generally work on a rotation basis, and as we expand outside operations in the U.K. and Norway, a substantial portion of our crews may begin to rely on international air transport for rotation. Any such disruptions could impact the cost of rotating our crews, and possibly impact our ability to maintain a full crew on all rigs at a given time. Any of these public health threats and related consequences could adversely affect our financial results.Risks Relating to Our Common SharesThe market price of our common shares has recently declined significantly. If the average closing price of our common shares declines to less than $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days, our common shares could be delisted from the NYSE or trading could be suspended.Our common shares are currently listed on the NYSE. In order for our common shares to continue to be listed on the NYSE, we are required to comply with various listing standards, including the maintenance of a minimum average closing price of at least $1.00 per share during a consecutive 30 trading-day period. For example, on August 20, 2015, we received notice from the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, that we were not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards because the average closing share price of our common stock for the consecutive 30 trading-day period ending on August 17, 2015 had fallen below the requirement to be at least $1.00 per share. This notice did not have an immediate effect on the NYSE listing of our common shares. Following our 1 for 10 reverse stock split and capital reduction, which was completed on December 30, 2015, we received notification from the NYSE on February 1, 2016, that we are now in compliance with the continued listing criterion.A renewed or continued decline in the closing price of our common shares on the NYSE could result in a breach of these requirements. Although we would have an opportunity to take action to cure such a breach, if we did not succeed, the NYSE could commence suspension or delisting procedures in respect of our common shares. The commencement of suspension or delisting procedures by an exchange remains, at all times, at the discretion of such exchange and would be publicly announced by the exchange. If a suspension or delisting were to occur, there would be significantly less liquidity in the suspended or delisted securities. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, with respect to any suspended or delisted common shares, we would expect decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to such common shares. A suspension or delisting would likely decrease the attractiveness of our common shares to investors and cause the trading volume of our common shares to decline, which could result in a further decline in the market price of our common shares. Seadrill controls a substantial ownership stake in us and Seadrill’s interests could conflict with interest of our other shareholders.As the date of this Annual Report, Seadrill owns approximately 70.4% of our outstanding common shares. As a result of this substantial ownership interest, Seadrill currently has the ability to exert significant influence over certain actions requiring shareholders’ approval, including, increasing or decreasing the authorized share capital, the election of directors, declaration of dividends, the appointment of management, and other policy decisions. While transactions with Seadrill could benefit us, the interests of Seadrill could at times conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Seadrill or its affiliates, which may result in the conclusion of transactions on terms not determined by market forces. Any such conflicts of interest could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common shares.Seadrill may reduce its ownership interest in us.The potential transactions announced with Rosneft will, if consummated, result in a reduction in Seadrill's ownership interest in us. While it is contemplated that Seadrill will continue to hold a majority ownership interest in us upon closing of the Rosneft transactions, we can provide no assurance that Seadrill will not agree with Rosneft to further reduce its ownership in us, or negotiate another transaction to reduce its ownership in us. If Seadrill were to reduce its ownership in us to a minority interest, we can provide no assurance that Seadrill would continue to provide support or management services to us, and we can provide no assurance that we would be able to replace Seadrill’s support and services with the support and services of a third party that would be of the same quality or at the same cost.Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have.24We are a Bermuda exempted company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Companies Act, 1981 of Bermuda, or the Companies Act, govern our affairs. The Companies Act does not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the Companies Act which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, including such shareholder. However, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have.We are incorporated in Bermuda and it may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us.We are incorporated in Bermuda and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, most of our directors and some of our executive officers are non-residents of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process in the United States upon us or our directors and executive officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts.In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based on those laws.Our costs of operating as a public company are and will be significant, and our management is and will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations.We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the Commission, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and as such, we have, and will continue to have, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our initial public offering in the United States. These reporting obligations impose various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices, and these requirements may continue to evolve. We and our management personnel, and other personnel, if any, devote, and will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we need to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management efforts.An active and liquid market for our common shares may not develop or be sustained and the price of our common shares may be highly volatile. Our common shares have only traded on the NYSE since January 29, 2014 and on the Norwegian OTC List since February 24, 2011. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower bid ask spreads and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for market participants. If an active trading market for the common shares does not develop, the price of the common shares may be more volatile and it may be more difficult and time consuming to complete a transaction in the common shares, which could have an adverse effect on the realized price of the common shares. We cannot predict the price at which our common shares will trade.The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Further, there may be no continuing active or liquid public market for our common shares. If an active trading market for our common shares does not continue, the price of our common shares may be more volatile and it may be more difficult and time consuming to complete a transaction in the common shares, which could have an adverse effect on the realized price of the common shares. An adverse development in the market price for our common shares could negatively affect our ability to issue new equity to fund our activities. For our share price history, please see “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—A. Offer and Listing Details.”