ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the SEC before investing in our common units. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.525 per unit or any other amount. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and natural gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we distribute on our units principally depends on the cash we generate from operations, which depends on, among other things: · the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce; · the prices at which we sell our oil, natural gas and NGL production; · the amount and timing of settlements of our commodity derivatives; · the level of our operating costs, including maintenance capital expenditures and payments to our general partner; and · the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon. 24 For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, please read “Item 5—Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” We rely on New Source Energy and New Dominion, our contract operator, to execute our drilling program. If either New Source Energy or New Dominion fails to perform or inadequately performs, our operations will be adversely affected and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash flow from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We have entered into agreements with New Source Energy and New Dominion, under which we rely on New Dominion to operate all of our existing producing wells and coordinate our development drilling program. For example, pursuant to our development agreement with New Source Energy and New Dominion, our general partner has the ability to propose an annual drilling schedule as well as to determine our annual maintenance drilling budget. We are a party to the Golden Lane Participation Agreement, pursuant to which New Dominion serves as the contract operator for the Partnership Properties. While under the terms of the development agreement, New Dominion is required to use its commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that our proportionate share of capital costs under the Golden Lane Participation Agreement are equal to our general partner’s proposed annual maintenance budget, New Dominion has the ability to propose upward or downward revisions to that budget subject to the approval of our general partner. Similarly, while our general partner is required to establish an annual drilling schedule, New Dominion may propose additions, substitutions or deletions subject to the approval of our general partner. Changes to either the budget or the drilling schedule could results from non-participation elections from other parties to the Golden Lane Participation Agreement, weather related events that interrupt the drilling schedule, operating results from completed or development wells or forced pooling. To the extent any of these events results in the development of less additional production or reserves than we currently anticipate, our cash flow from operations may be materially impaired. Under the omnibus agreement, New Source Energy also provides us with management and administrative services that we believe are necessary to allow our general partner to operate, manage and grow our business. If the New Source Group fails to perform or inadequately performs these functions, our operations would be adversely affected and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed or properly developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash flow from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to you. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and therefore our cash flow and ability to make distributions are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. Our production decline rates may be significantly higher than currently estimated if our wells do not produce as expected. Further, our decline rate may change when we drill additional wells or make acquisitions. 25 A decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil, natural gas and NGLs are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: · worldwide and regional economic and political conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; · the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; · the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; · the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; · localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; · weather conditions and natural disasters; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; · price and availability of competitors’ supplies of oil and natural gas; · the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because approximately 72% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 were oil and natural gas liquids reserves, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices. The price of oil has been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the daily NYMEX West Texas Intermediate oil spot price ranged from a high of $109.39 per Bbl to a low of $77.72 per Bbl, and the NYMEX natural gas Henry Hub spot price ranged from a high of $3.77 to a low of $1.82 per MMBtu. Substantially all of our oil production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than twelve months) contracts at market based prices. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability and the present value of our reserves. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may affect our proved reserves. Unless we replace the oil and natural gas reserves we produce, our revenues and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We will be unable to sustain our minimum quarterly distribution without substantial capital expenditures that maintain our asset base. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our current proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced and, therefore, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely unless we participate in successful development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow from operations are highly dependent upon the level of success we, in conjunction with the New Source Group, have in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that the New Source Group will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at economically acceptable terms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 26 According to estimates included in our proved reserve report, if on December 31, 2012 drilling and development on our properties had ceased, including recompletions and workovers, then our proved developed producing reserves would decline at an annual effective rate of 11.4% over 10 years. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless the New Source Group conducts other successful exploration and development activities or we acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We do not currently operate any of our drilling locations, and therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of our assets. We do not currently operate any of our properties and do not have plans to develop the capacity to operate any of our properties. As a non-operated working interest owner, we are dependent on the New Source Group to develop our properties. Other than as provided in our development agreement, our ability to achieve targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and to achieve production growth rates will be materially affected by decisions made by the New Source Group over which we have little or no control. Such decisions include: · the timing of capital expenditures; · the timing of initiating the drilling and recompleting of wells; · the extent of operating costs; · selection of technology and drilling and completion methods; and · the rate of production of reserves, if any. The Golden Lane Participation Agreement contains terms that may be disadvantageous to us. In connection with our entry into the development agreement with New Source Energy and New Dominion, we became a party to the Golden Lane Participation Agreement, which includes both affiliated and third party lease holders in the Golden Lane field. While our general partner has the ability to establish our annual maintenance drilling budget and drilling schedule and New Dominion has agreed to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to comply with each, New Dominion serves as the contract operator under the terms of the Participation Agreement and, as among the balance of the participants in that agreement, has the sole right to propose new wells. In addition, New Dominion has the ability to propose changes to either our annual maintenance drilling budget or the drilling schedule, with such changes being subject to the approval of our general partner. In addition, the Golden Lane Participation Agreement contains negotiated terms that may depart from those typical in operating agreements, which grant New Dominion a high degree of control over the development of the Partnership Properties. Such terms include the following: · New Dominion may retain record title to our interest in any undeveloped properties that New Dominion acquires in the future for our benefit until after the drilling of and production from such properties. · Subject to our general partner’s approval, our contract operator may substitute one or more wells intended to be drilled with a new well or add additional wells. We are obligated to pay our proportionate share of any additional costs incurred. · If we decline to participate in a new well that New Dominion proposes, we will not be eligible to participate in the next four wells in adjacent drilling and spacing units to such proposed well (unless the proposed well is in an undrilled township and range, in which case we will not be eligible to participate in the next eight wells in adjacent drilling and spacing units to the proposed well), and we also would be obligated to pay for our share of the applicable acquisition costs associated with the leasehold interests underlying the proposed new well even though we have elected not to participate in the well and the associated costs themselves. In addition, if we decline to participate in a new well that New Dominion proposes, we will relinquish our interest in the new well and our share of production from the new well until such time at which the proceeds from such relinquished interest paid to the working interest owners that elected to participate in the new well reach specified aggregate thresholds intended to compensate the parties for our election not to participate. 27 · We are obligated to pay both a well connection fee and a fee per barrel of saltwater disposed and a proportionate share of the cost to maintain such disposal wells; however, we do not obtain any ownership rights in such disposal wells, pipelines or other infrastructure. · Our annual maintenance drilling budget includes a proportionate share of the capital costs of oil, gas, water and electrical infrastructure; however, such infrastructure remains the property of our contract operator. · Our contract operator may increase certain of the fees and costs charged to us. · Certain costs charged to us are “turnkey” costs, which may be higher or lower than the actual costs incurred. · We may be liable for certain legacy liabilities related to the Partnership Properties. · Our share of oil and gas production is committed to sale arrangements that we do not control and may not reflect market terms at any given time. · Our right to sell or commit the Partnership Properties to other ventures is limited by rights held by our contract operator. Our contract operator does not own a working interest in any of the properties it operates on our behalf. As a result, our contract operator may have interests in developing and operating the Partnership Properties that differ from and may be contrary to our interests. If our contract operator fails to perform its obligations under its agreements with us, becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise proves to be an undesirable operator, our business could be adversely affected. The successful execution of our strategy depends on continued utilization of New Dominion’s oil and gas infrastructure and technical staff as the operator of our properties. Failure to continue this relationship through (i) the termination or expiration of the operating agreements governing such relationship, or New Source Energy’s other arrangements with New Dominion and its affiliates or (ii) the bankruptcy or dissolution of New Dominion could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. In particular, if New Dominion becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, New Dominion or the bankruptcy trustee may be able to cancel one or more of its agreements with us on the basis that they are “executory contracts.” If this were to occur, we would be required either to renegotiate with New Dominion or its successor to continue to serve as the operator of our properties and provide us with access to the saltwater disposal and other infrastructure serving our properties or to select another operator and obtain access to similar infrastructure from other sources, any of which would most likely result in higher costs to us for such services and infrastructure, notwithstanding the omnibus agreement. Properties that we acquire may not produce oil or natural gas as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. Our principal growth strategy is to pursue selective acquisitions of producing and proved undeveloped properties in conventional resource reservoirs through the New Source Group. If we choose to participate in an acquisition identified by the New Source Group, we will perform a review of the target properties that we believe is consistent with industry practices. However, these reviews are inherently incomplete. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We may not perform an inspection on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may not be able to obtain effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. 28 All of our producing properties and interests are currently located in the Hunton Formation in east-central Oklahoma, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one primary geographic area. All of our oil and gas assets and interests are currently in the Hunton Formation in east-central Oklahoma. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from wells in which we have an interest that are caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and gas producing areas such as in Oklahoma, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant risks associated with the drilling and completion of wells in which we participate. There are risks associated with the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running casing the entire length of the wellbore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore, fires and spills, among others. Risks in completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to produce the formation, being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the wellbore. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly reduce our revenues or cause substantial losses, impairing our future operating results. We may become subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards. The payment of such liabilities could reduce the funds available to us or could, in an extreme case, result in a total loss of our properties and assets. Our reliance on specialized processes creates uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our business strategies is to commercially develop conventional resource reservoirs using specialized processes employed by the New Source Group. One technique utilized by the New Source Group is the installation of electric submersible pumps to depressurize the targeted hydrocarbon-bearing reservoir, allowing the gas to expand and push oil and natural gas out of the pores in which they are trapped, in order to increase the production of oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of these techniques is inherently difficult to predict. If these specialized processes do not allow for the extraction of additional oil and natural gas production in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our key management personnel, and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. If we lose the services of our key management personnel (including Mr. Kos and Mr. Chernicky) or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations, development efforts and ability to grow could suffer. We depend upon the knowledge, skill and experience of these individuals to assist us in improving the performance and reducing the risks associated with our participation in oil and natural gas development projects. In addition, the success of our business depends, to a significant extent, upon the abilities and continued efforts of our management. Our key management personnel (including Mr. Kos and Mr. Chernicky) may terminate their employment with us at any time for any reason with little or no notice. Upon termination of their employment, such persons may engage in businesses that compete with us. 29 We rely on our relationships with affiliates to access infrastructure that is critical to the development of our assets. Adequate infrastructure may not be available at an economic rate. Execution of our business strategy is dependent on the availability and capability of various infrastructure, including gas gathering and processing, saltwater disposal, and transportation. Future acquisitions may require us to expend significant capital to acquire, develop or access similar infrastructure. Such capital requirements may adversely impact our returns. Access to saltwater disposal infrastructure may not be sufficient to handle all saltwater produced, and more stringent environmental regulations may impact the New Source Group’s ability to handle saltwater. The proposed production is dependent on economically disposing of large amounts of saltwater utilizing the New Source Group’s existing saltwater disposal infrastructure. Changing, more stringent, environmental regulations or the unexpected production of excessive saltwater could render such infrastructure insufficient and require additional capital expenditures. Our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be adversely affected by lack of transportation, capacity constraints and interruptions. The marketability of our production from our producing properties depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of third-party refineries, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. We deliver crude oil and natural gas produced from these areas through transportation systems that we do not own. The lack of availability or capacity on these systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, field labor issues or strikes, or the New Source Group might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could adversely affect our cash flow from operations. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be developed over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. We have identified and scheduled drilling locations on our acreage over a multi-year period. The ability of New Dominion to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including our availability of capital to fund an annual maintenance drilling budget, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as, to some degree, the results of New Dominion’s drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the identified drilling locations will be drilled within our expected time frame or will ever be drilled. As such, our actual drilling activities may be materially different from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. To prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil, natural gas and NGL prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production. 30 Actual future production, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development, prevailing oil, natural gas and NGL prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our estimated proved reserves is undeveloped and may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could have a material adverse effect on our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income. Approximately 41% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 were proved undeveloped reserves and may not be ultimately developed or produced. In estimating our proved undeveloped reserves, we rely upon estimates of our working interest and net revenue interest based on our current ownership of leasehold in the proposed drilling unit, and we also use assumed production volumes based on production histories and geological information. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in our reserve report assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required and will be made to develop these reserves. We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the standardized measure of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we have based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each of the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: · the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; · our actual development and production expenditures; · the amount and timing of actual production; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility. 31 If we realize lower than expected cash from production, either due to lower than anticipated production levels or a decline in commodity prices from recent levels, we would need to curtail our development activities, acquisition activities, or both, or seek alternative sources of capital, including by means of entering into joint ventures with other exploration and production companies, sales of interests in certain of the Partnership Properties or by undertaking additional financing activities (including through the issuance of equity or the incurrence of debt). If we are forced to make non-consent elections to proposed wells on the Partnership Properties due to lack of capital, we would be subject to substantial penalties under the Golden Lane Participation Agreement related to relinquishment of our interest in proposed new wells and our eligibility to participate in certain additional wells. We may not be able to access the capital markets or otherwise secure such additional financing on reasonable terms or at all, and financing may not continue to be available to us under our existing or new financing arrangements. Our business strategy is reliant upon our ability to have access to a substantial amount of outside capital. The availability of these sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including general economic and financial market conditions, oil, natural gas and NGL prices and our market value and operating performance. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including, among others: · our proved reserves; · the volume of oil, natural gas and NGLs we are able to produce and sell from existing wells; · the prices at which our oil, natural gas and NGLs are sold; · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and · the ability of our banks to lend. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas or NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital and increases in interest rates. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. If oil, natural gas and NGL prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount available under our revolving credit facility. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. 32 Our insurance policies might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years, and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability, and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. As a relatively small oil and natural gas company, many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and natural gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit and may be willing to pay premium prices that we cannot afford to match. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel or raising additional capital. Our commodity derivative arrangements may be ineffective in managing our commodity price risk and could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely impact our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We enter into financial hedge arrangements (i.e., commodity derivative agreements) from time to time in order to manage our commodity price risk and to provide a more predictable cash flow from operations. We do not intend to designate our derivative instruments as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The fair value of our derivative instruments are marked to market at the end of each quarter, and the resulting unrealized gains or losses due to changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments. Actual future production of our properties may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into commodity derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimated, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, to the extent we engage in hedging activities, such hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: · production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; · the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; · there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or · the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments do not detect and prevent transactions that are inconsistent with our risk management strategies. 33 In addition, depending on the type of derivative arrangements we enter into, the agreements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids prices. We cannot assure you that the commodity derivative contracts we have entered into, or will enter into, will adequately protect us from fluctuations in oil prices. The enactment of derivatives legislation and regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the negative effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Act the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court (the “District Court”) for the District of Columbia in September of 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court’s decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap”, “security-based swap”, “swap dealer” and “major swap participant”. The Act and CFTC rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements, although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our production of oil and natural gas is sold to a limited number of customers and the credit default of one of these customers could have a temporary adverse effect on us. Our revenues are generated under contracts with a limited number of customers. Historically, all of the natural gas from our properties has been sold to Scissortail Energy, LLC and all of the oil from our properties has been sold to United Petroleum Purchasing Company and Sun Refining. Our results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of non-performance by any of our customers. A non-payment default by one of these large customers could have an adverse effect on us, temporarily reducing our cash flow. 34 Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity and incur debt. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank similar yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt, and the cost to us of any such issuance or incurrence. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment governing the oil and natural gas industry, particularly changes in the current Oklahoma forced pooling system, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various forms of extensive government regulation, including laws and regulations concerning the location, spacing and permitting of the oil and natural gas wells the New Source Group drills and the disposal of saltwater produced from such wells, among other matters. In particular, our business relies heavily on a methodology available in Oklahoma known as “forced pooling,” which refers to the ability of a holder of an oil and natural gas interest in a particular prospective drilling spacing unit to apply to the Oklahoma Corporation Commission for an order forcing all other holders of oil and natural gas interests in such area into a common pool for purposes of developing that drilling spacing unit. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment governing our industry, particularly any changes to Oklahoma forced pooling procedures that make forced pooling more difficult to accomplish, could result in increased compliance costs and adversely affect our business and results of our operations. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Both the Obama Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 and other recently proposed legislation would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs (“IDCs”), (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our common unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. The New Source Group’s operations are subject to worker health and safety as well as environmental laws and regulations which may expose the New Source Group and us to significant costs and liabilities. The New Source Group’s oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing operations on our behalf are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety aspects of the operation, the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may impose on those operations numerous requirements, including the obligation to obtain a permit before conducting drilling, underground injection or other activities; restrictions on the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; limitations or prohibitions of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; specific health and safety criteria to protect workers; and the responsibility for cleaning up any pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. These laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties for any violations; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations; and delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. 35 There is an inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of the New Source Group’s operations, some of which may be material, due to the New Source Group’s handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, emissions to air and water, the underground injection or other disposal of wastes and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the New Source Group and we may be liable regardless of whether either of us were at fault for the full cost of removing or remediating contamination, even when multiple parties contributed to the release and the contaminants were released in compliance with all applicable laws. In addition, accidental spills or releases on our properties may expose the New Source Group and us to significant costs or liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or the results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Aside from government agencies, the owners of properties where our wells are located, the operators of facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for processing, reclamation or disposal and other private parties may be able to sue the New Source Group and us to enforce compliance with environmental laws and regulations, collect penalties for violations or obtain damages for any related personal injury or property damage. Some of our properties are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities or waste handling, emission, waste management or cleanup requirements could require the New Source Group and us to incur significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position or financial condition, the results of operations, or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that the New Source Group produces for us, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt the production and result in significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in producing oil and natural gas and the demand for and consumption of oil and natural gas (due to change in both costs and weather patterns). In December 2009, the EPA determined that atmospheric concentrations of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and welfare because such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Consistent with its findings, the EPA adopted regulations under the CAA that establish PSD and Title V permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet “best available control technology” standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis, which includes certain of our operations. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions will be required to meet emissions limits that are based on the “best available control technology,” which will be established by the permitting agencies on a case-by-case basis. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, including certain oil and natural gas production facilities, which may include certain of the New Source Group’s operations on our behalf. The EPA’s GHG rules could adversely affect the New Source Group’s operations and restrict or delay the New Source Group’s ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. 36 While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact the New Source Group’s operations and our business, any such future laws and regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from the New Source Group’s equipment and operations could require it and us to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with those operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that the New Source Group produces on our behalf. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms and floods. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the New Source Group’s exploration and production operations. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and the results of operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. Our insurance may not cover some or any of the damages, losses, or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our revolving credit facility contains substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our revolving credit facility that are not cured or waived within the appropriate time periods provided in our revolving credit facility, all or a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Our revolving credit facility is reserve-based, and thus we are permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility in an amount up to the borrowing base, which is primarily based on the value of our oil and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. Our borrowing base is subject to redetermination on a semi-annual basis based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated natural gas, NGL and oil reserves, which takes into account the prevailing natural gas, NGL and oil prices at such time, as adjusted for the impact of our derivative contracts. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. 37 A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination that lowers our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we will be required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not anticipate having any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we anticipate that if, at the time of any distribution, our borrowings equal or exceed the maximum percentage allowed of the then-specified borrowing base, we will not be able to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter without first making the required repayments of indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. The variable rate indebtedness in our revolving credit facility subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at rates that may vary, exposing us to interest rate risk. If such rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: · a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; · a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; · a high level of debt could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; · our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; · a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in the borrowing base of our revolving credit facility following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then outstanding bank borrowings; and · a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general partnership or other purposes. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. Our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. Therefore, if we default on any of our obligations under the credit facility it could result in our lenders foreclosing on our assets or otherwise being entitled to revenues generated by and through our assets. 38 Risks Related to Our Common Units Our general partner and its affiliates owns a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. As of March 29, 2013, New Source Energy controlled an aggregate 16.6% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units, and 100% of the membership interests in our general partner is owned by New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates. Mr. Chernicky, in turn, owns 89% of the voting common stock of New Source Energy, and he also owns 1,110,250 of our common units. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. However, certain directors and officers of our general partner, including Mr. Chernicky and Mr. Kos, are directors and/or officers of affiliates of our general partner (including members of the New Source Group), and will continue to have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in the New Source Group. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future between our general partner and its affiliates (including members of the New Source Group), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders and us. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires New Source Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of New Source Energy have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of its equity holders, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its owners, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; · New Source Energy is not limited in its ability to compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities, and is under no obligation to offer assets to us; · except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; · many of the officers and directors of our general partner who will provide services to us will devote time to affiliates of our general partner, including New Source Energy, and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, reductions, and restrictions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · while our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling program under our development agreement, our contract operator, New Dominion, may propose changes to such program as a result of operating or other conditions; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests, other investments, including investment capital expenditures in other partnerships with which our general partner is or may become affiliated, and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; · our general partner determines whether a cash expenditure is classified as a growth capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; · we and our general partner are parties to an omnibus agreement with New Source Energy, pursuant to which, among other things, New Source Energy will perform management and administrative services for us and our general partner; · our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; 39 · our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $11.5 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; · our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including New Source Energy. New Source Energy and other affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Our partnership agreement provides that the New Source Group is not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, the New Source Group may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. The members of the New Source Group are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry, and each may have resources greater than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with them with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely primarily on the employees of New Source Energy and New Dominion to manage our business. The management team of New Source Energy, which includes the individuals who manage us, also performs substantially similar services for its assets and operations, and thus is not solely focused on our business. Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely primarily on New Source Energy and New Dominion to operate our assets. We and our general partner have entered into various agreements with the New Source Group, pursuant to which, among other things, the New Source Group has agreed to operate our assets, perform our drilling operations and provide other management and administrative services for us and our general partner. 40 The New Source Group provides substantially similar services with respect to its own assets and operations. Because the New Source Group provides services to us that are substantially similar to those performed for its members, the New Source Group may not have sufficient human, technical and other resources to provide those services at a level that the New Source Group would be able to provide to us if it were solely focused on our business and operations. The New Source Group may make internal decisions on how to allocate its available resources and expertise that may not always be in our best interest compared to the interests of our affiliates. There is no requirement that the New Source Group favor us over itself in providing its services. If the employees of the New Source Group do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. We have previously had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If one or more material weaknesses recur or if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. In connection with the preparation of New Source Energy’s financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, New Source Energy identified errors in the prior calculation of its natural gas and NGL sales volumes and the related effects of those sales volumes on the calculations of depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses attributable to time periods in which its oil and natural gas properties were owned by Scintilla. New Source Energy corrected these errors, which resulted in net increases of its depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 of $3.8 million, $3.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and corresponding decreases of its net income for these periods. These changes also resulted in net decreases of New Source Energy’s oil and natural gas properties, net as of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 of $6.4 million, $9.8 million and $13.8 million, respectively. Also during the preparation of New Source Energy’s financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, New Source Energy identified an error in recording goodwill related to the acquisition of other properties in the amount of the deferred income tax liability resulting from the carryover of tax attributes from the prior owners to New Source Energy. New Source Energy management, which following the completion of our IPO constitutes our management, considered the failure to identify these errors in a timely manner to be material weaknesses in New Source Energy’s internal control over financial reporting under the standards established by the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the “PCAOB Standards.” Under the PCAOB standards, a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. In response to these material weaknesses, New Source Energy evaluated its historical financial and operations data for further deficiencies and has changed the method by which it computes its natural gas and NGL sales volumes to ensure that such volumes match the actual volumes processed by its first purchasers. New Source Energy also instituted additional control procedures around the research and recording of nonrecurring transactions. New Source Energy took all remedial actions it believed to be necessary, and we and New Source Energy are not currently aware of other material weaknesses. However, we cannot assure you that the measures taken to date, or any future measures we may implement, will prevent the recurrence of these or other similar weaknesses or ensure that we maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting. In addition, it is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify additional errors in our financial statements that may be considered significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. We are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and, after we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will be asked to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our testing, or subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal other material weaknesses or that the material weaknesses described above have not been fully remediated. 41 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for “emerging growth companies,” including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012, unless the SEC determines otherwise, (4) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies, (5) hold nonbinding unitholder advisory votes on executive compensation or (6) obtain unitholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. Cost reimbursements due to New Source Energy for services provided to us or on our behalf will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We and our general partner are parties an omnibus agreement with New Source Energy pursuant to which, among other things, we make payments to New Source Energy for management and administrative services provided on our behalf. Through December 31, 2013, we will pay New Source Energy a quarterly fee of $675,000 for the provision of such services. After December 31, 2013, in lieu of the quarterly fee, our general partner will reimburse New Source Energy, on a quarterly basis, for all actual direct and indirect expenses it incurs in its performance under the omnibus agreement, and we will reimburse our general partner for such payments it makes to New Source Energy in an amount equal to the cost of such actual and indirect expenses, without a cap on the amount of such reimbursement. Additionally, we are responsible for the costs of any equity-based compensation awarded to our management or the board of directors of our general partner. We are also responsible for all acquisition costs for acquisitions evaluated or completed for our benefit. These payments will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. 42 Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Our general partner has the right (but not the obligation), at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (25%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash contribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units which would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right (if at all) to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the reasonable determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units and subordinated units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or advisable to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. 43 Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The owners of our general partner have the power to appoint and remove our general partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is appointed by its owners, which are New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. New Source Energy and the chairman of its board of directors, Mr. Chernicky, collectively own approximately 33.0% of our outstanding common units, all of our subordinated units, and a 30.6% membership interest in our general partner. As a result the other unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and are not able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common units (including common units held by New Source Energy and Mr. Chernicky) after the subordination period has ended. Assuming we do not issue any additional common units and New Source Energy does not transfer its common units, New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates will have the ability to amend our partnership agreement, including our policy to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, without the approval of any other unitholder once the subordination period ends. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of New Source Energy and such affiliates relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the other unitholders. Our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain our long-term asset base, including expenditures to replace our oil and natural gas reserves (including non-proved reserves attributable to undeveloped leasehold acreage), whether through the development, exploitation and production of an existing leasehold or the acquisition or development of a new oil or natural gas property. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our general partner’s board of directors at least once a year, provided that any change is approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote any units it may own, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation involving us or to any amendment to the partnership agreement; 44 · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were not adverse to the interests of our partnership; · provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners with respect to any transaction involving an affiliate if: · the transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: · approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or · approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; or · the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith in taking any action or failing to act; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner’s board of directors or the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without consent of the owners of our general partner. The public unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates consent because New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent our general partner’s removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. New Source Energy owns approximately 39.2% of our outstanding common and subordinated units and a 5.6% membership interest in our general partner. Control of our general partner and its incentive distribution rights may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner, who are New Source Energy and certain of its affiliates, from transferring all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers in a manner that may not be aligned with the interests of our unitholders. 45 In addition, our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves established by our general partner, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net income. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the limited voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20% or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ limited voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity or group that owns 20% or more of any class of common units then outstanding (other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner) cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner has a call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. New Source Energy and Mr. Chernicky collectively own approximately 33.0% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units. 46 If we distribute cash from capital surplus, which is analogous to a return of capital, our minimum quarterly distribution will be reduced proportionately, and the distribution thresholds after which the incentive distribution rights entitle our general partner to an increased percentage of distributions will be proportionately decreased. Our cash distributions will be characterized as coming from either operating surplus or capital surplus. Operating surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally means amounts we receive from operating sources, such as sale of our oil and natural gas production, less operating expenditures, such as production costs and taxes, and less estimated maintenance capital expenditures, which are generally amounts we estimate we will need to spend in the future to maintain our production levels over the long term. Capital surplus is defined in our partnership agreement and generally would result from cash received from non-operating sources such as sales of properties and issuances of debt and equity interests. Cash representing capital surplus, therefore, is analogous to a return of capital. Distributions of capital surplus are made to our unitholders and our general partner in proportion to their percentage interests in us, or 98.0% to our unitholders and 2.0% to our general partner, and will result in a decrease in our minimum quarterly distribution. Our partnership agreement allows us to add to operating surplus $11.5 million. As a result, a portion of this amount, which is analogous to a return of capital, may be distributed to the general partner and its affiliates, as holders of incentive distribution rights, rather than to holders of common units as a return of capital. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, we currently conduct business in Oklahoma and may in the future conduct business in other states. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make distributions to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. 47 If our common unit price declines, our unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: · changes in commodity prices; · changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; · public reaction to our press releases, announcements and filings with the SEC; · fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of oil and natural gas companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · departures of key personnel; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other oil and natural gas companies; · variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders; · future issuances and sales of our common units; and · changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and natural gas industry. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short-term borrowings under our revolving credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short-term fluctuation in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter-to-quarter distributions. The terms of our revolving credit facility restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow our reserves and production. Our partnership agreement provides that we will distribute all of our available cash each quarter. As a result, we may be dependent on the issuance of additional common units and other partnership securities and borrowings to finance our growth. A number of factors will affect our ability to issue securities and borrow money to finance growth, as well as the costs of such financings, including: · general economic and market conditions, including interest rates, prevailing at the time we desire to issue securities or borrow funds; · conditions in the oil and natural gas industry; · the market price of, and demand for, our common units; · our results of operations and financial condition; and · prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. 48 The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the NYSE under the symbol “NSLP.” Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of NYSE corporate governance requirements. Please read “Item 10 — Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Management of New Source Energy Partners L.P.” Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will be treated as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability resulting from that income. 49 The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than the calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to its unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. 50 We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to return filing requirements and other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We will initially own assets and conduct business in the state of Oklahoma. Oklahoma currently imposes a personal income tax and also imposes income taxes on corporations and other entities. You may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in Oklahoma. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. 