RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares or ADRs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to us. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Risks related to Sibanye Gold’s business Changes in the market price for gold, which in the past have fluctuated widely, affect the profitability of Sibanye Gold’s operations and the cash flows generated by those operations. Virtually all of Sibanye Gold’s revenues are derived from the sale of gold. Sibanye Gold also derives an immaterial amount of revenue from the sale of silver, representing, for example, 0.25% of revenue during the fiscal year ended December 2012. Sibanye Gold generally does not enter into forward sales, derivatives or other hedging arrangements to establish a price in advance for the sale of its future gold production. Since Sibanye Gold does not generally use commodity or derivative instruments, it will generally be unprotected against declines in the gold price, which could lead to reduced revenue in respect of gold production that is not hedged. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. Historically, the market price for gold has fluctuated widely and has been affected by numerous factors over which Sibanye Gold has no control, including: • the demand for gold for industrial uses and for use in jewelry; • demand for gold from relatively new emerging markets, particularly Brazil, Russia, India and China, and the emerging middle class in these markets; • actual, expected or rumored purchases and sales of gold bullion holdings by central banks or other large gold bullion holders or dealers; • demand for exchange traded funds, or ETFs, which replicate the exact performance of gold; • demand for gold for investment purposes; • investor confidence in gold and the gold business; • speculative trading activities in gold; • the overall level of forward sales by other gold producers; • the overall level and cost of production by other gold producers; • international or regional political and economic events or trends; • the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar (the currency in which gold prices generally are quoted) and of other currencies; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; and • interest rates. While the aggregate effect of these factors is impossible for Sibanye Gold to predict, if gold prices fall below the amount it costs Sibanye Gold to produce gold and remain at such levels for any sustained period, it may experience losses and may be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its projects, operations and/or reduce operational capital expenditures. In addition, Sibanye Gold might not be able to recover any losses it may incur during, or after, such periods. In addition, current demand for, and supply of, gold does not necessarily affect the price of gold in the same manner as current demand and supply affect the prices of other commodities. Since the potential supply of gold 7 Table of Contents is large relative to mine production in any given year, normal variations in current production will not necessarily have a significant effect on the supply of gold or the gold price. Central banks, financial institutions and individuals historically have held large amounts of gold as a store of value, and production in any given year historically has constituted a small portion of the total potential supply of gold. Pursuant to a gold sales agreement entered into by 15 European central banks, individual banks may sell up to 400 tons of gold per year, effective through September 2014. However, the effect on the market of these or any other gold sales is unclear. Due to the credit crisis in the Eurozone countries and other factors, the market price of gold has been at historically high levels recently, and has experienced significant volatility. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Revenues”. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may adversely affect Sibanye Gold’s ability to evaluate the feasibility of undertaking new capital projects or continuing existing operations or to make other long-term strategic decisions. Sibanye Gold’s mineral reserves are estimates based on a number of assumptions, any changes to which may require Sibanye Gold to lower its estimated mineral reserves. The mineral reserves stated in this annual report represent the amount of gold that we estimated, as of December 31, 2012, could be mined, processed and sold at prices at least sufficient to recover Sibanye Gold’s estimated future total costs of production, remaining investment and anticipated additional capital expenditures, along with comparative figures for the mineral reserves as of December 31, 2011. Ore reserves are estimates based on assumptions regarding, among other things, Sibanye Gold’s costs, expenditures, prices and exchange rates and metallurgical and mining recovery assumptions, which may prove inaccurate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In the event that we revise any of our assumptions that underlie our mineral reserves reporting in an adverse manner, Sibanye Gold may need to revise its mineral reserves downwards. In particular, if Sibanye Gold’s production costs (especially labor costs and electricity) or capital expenditures increase, if gold prices decrease or if the Rand strengthens against the U.S. dollar, a portion of Sibanye Gold’s mineral reserves may become uneconomical to recover, forcing Sibanye Gold to lower its estimated reserves. See “Information on the Company—Reserves of Sibanye Gold as of December 31, 2012”. Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits have been and may be negatively affected by strikes, union activity and new and existing labor laws. There has been an increase in union activity in South Africa and, in recent years, there have been new labor laws introduced or amendments to existing labor laws that impose additional obligations on Sibanye Gold or grant additional rights to workers, thereby increasing compliance and other costs. These developments have had a material adverse impact on our operations, production and financial performance. The occurrence of any such events in the future could have further negative impacts upon Sibanye Gold and its financial performance and condition. Greater union activity, including the entry of rival unions, has resulted in more frequent industrial disputes, including violent protests and clashes with police authorities, and has impacted labor negotiations in the industry. In particular, during the second half of the fiscal year ended December 2012, a number of unions in the mining industry threatened to or have gone on strike for various reasons, including the renegotiation of wage agreements. These strikes impacted each of Sibanye Gold’s operations and caused work stoppages and significant production losses. As a result, on September 27, 2012, South Africa’s sovereign debt credit rating, along with the credit ratings of a number of the country’s leading mining companies, was downgraded. For example, during August, September and October 2012, approximately 29,000 of Sibanye Gold’s employees (out of nearly 36,000 employees) engaged in work stoppages. Work stoppages occurred at the KDC West mine from September 9, 2012 to October 18, 2012. At the KDC East mine, work stoppages occurred from 8 Table of Contents August 29, 2012 to September 5, 2012 and again from October 14, 2012 to October 23, 2012, when 8,100 workers were dismissed for failing to return to work, with 7,600 appealing that dismissal. After an appeal process, a majority of the employees returned to work on November 6, 2012. At the Beatrix mine, work stoppages occurred from September 21, 2012 to October 18, 2012. Workers at Beatrix West went on strike on September 21, 2012 and workers at Beatrix North and South went on strike on September 24, 2012. On October 17, 2012, the strike at Beatrix North and South ended. On October 18, 2012, the strike at Beatrix West ended. In each case, these work stoppages continued despite the Chamber of Mines negotiating a settlement with three labor unions, the National Union of Mineworkers, or NUM, Solidarity and UASA, formerly known as the United Association of South Africa, which the striking employees rejected. Sibanye Gold has continued to engage with the relevant unions and has communicated with its employees in an attempt to resolve the work stoppages. Sibanye Gold estimated that, as a result of these work stoppages, the losses for the fiscal year ended December 2012 were approximately 145,000 ounces of gold production and R2.1 billion of revenue. These estimated losses, however, were partially offset by approximately R0.3 billion saved in wages, electricity, consumables and other costs not paid. Negotiations with the South African mining unions in 2011 resulted in above-inflation wage increases between 8.0% to 10.0%, depending upon the category of employee. Such negotiations, historically, have occurred every two years. However, the recent labor unrest has resulted in South African mining industry participants undergoing negotiations with workers and labor unions outside this period. These ad-hoc negotiations resulted in a settlement proposal made by a number of the gold mining companies in South Africa, including Sibanye Gold (through its former parent company, Gold Fields). Through the Chamber of Mines, Sibanye Gold (through Gold Fields), agreed with the trade unions to an earlier implementation of a number of provisions of the wage agreement reached in 2011 that were agreed to by all parties, culminating in an adjustment to wages in the relevant bargaining units of around 2.5%, or R150 million, per annum relating to changes to job grades and entry-level wages. In addition, the gold mining companies, trade unions and government have set up a working group for a wide-ranging review of working practices, productivity improvements and socio-economic conditions in the gold mining industry, which will feed into the next round of wage negotiations scheduled for 2013. Despite the fact that returning employees will receive the benefit of the settlement proposal referred to above, Sibanye Gold’s employees may continue to take industrial action to protest and seek redress in connection with a variety of issues, including pay and working conditions. Negotiations with the South African mining unions generally take place every two years, and, in light of the recent labor unrest, we expect that the negotiations in 2013 may be difficult and may be accompanied by further strikes, work stoppages or other labor actions. Further, Sibanye Gold has entered a consultation process with the labor unions and the Department of Mineral Resources, or the DMR, to consider available options, including retrenchments at Beatrix following a fire at Beatrix No. 4 Shaft during February 2013 that has caused the West Section to be inaccessible, at current estimates, until June 2014 at the earliest. In the event that Sibanye Gold experiences further strikes or work stoppages, delays, go-slow actions, sabotage, vandalism or other damage to operations, lower productivity levels than envisaged, other industrial relations-related interruptions at any of its operations or increased employment-related costs due to union or employee activity, these may have a material adverse effect on its business, production levels, production targets, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and future prospects. In addition, lower levels of mining activity can have a longer term impact on production levels and operating costs, particularly since mining conditions can deteriorate during extended periods without production and Sibanye Gold will not re-commence mining until health and safety conditions are considered appropriate to do so. Further, during the second half of the fiscal year ended December 2012, labor actions in several other South African industries have also occurred, including in the transportation industry, the coal industry (which supplies the South African electricity utility) and the platinum industry. Such labor actions have the potential to impact on Sibanye Gold’s business by influencing its own labor negotiations and by curtailing the supply of necessary 9 Table of Contents inputs. Increased costs related to labor actions in other industries or shortages of production inputs caused by such actions may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s production levels, business, results of operations and financial condition. Sibanye Gold may also be affected by certain labor laws that impose obligations regarding worker rights. For example, laws in South Africa impose monetary penalties for non-compliance with the administrative and the reporting requirements in respect of affirmative action policies. Existing labor laws and any new or amended labor laws may increase Sibanye Gold’s labor costs and have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. An actual or alleged breach or breaches in governance processes, or fraud, bribery and corruption may lead to regulatory penalties, loss of licenses or permits and loss of reputation. Sibanye Gold’s governance and compliance processes may not prevent potential breaches of law or accounting or other governance practices. Sibanye Gold’s operating codes, among other standards and guidance may not prevent instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty, nor guarantee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any actual or alleged breach or breaches of relevant laws, including South African anti-bribery and corruption legislation or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, may lead to regulatory and civil fines, litigation, public and private censure, and loss of operating licenses or permits and may damage Sibanye Gold’s reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the nature of mining and the type of gold mines we operate, we face a material risk of liability, delays, mine stoppages and increased production costs from environmental and industrial accidents and pollution. The business of gold mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards and industrial and mining accidents. In particular, hazards associated with our mining operations include: • rock bursts; • seismic events; • extreme ambient operating temperature; • surface or underground fires and explosions, including those caused by flammable gas or in connection with blasting; • cave-ins, wall collapse or gravity falls of ground, including collapses of rock dumps or tailings dams; • discharges of gases and toxic substances; • releases of radioactivity; • flooding; • electrocution; • falling from height; • accidents related to the presence of mobile machinery, including locomotives, shaft conveyances, and elevators; • ground and surface water pollution; • production disruption due to weather; • human error; • sinkhole formation and ground subsidence; and • other accidents and conditions resulting from drilling, blasting and removing and processing material. 10 Table of Contents We are at risk of experiencing any and all of these environmental or other industrial hazards and we are more susceptible than other mining operations to certain of these risks due to mining at deep levels. The occurrence of any of these hazards could delay or halt production, increase production costs and result in our liability. Ageing infrastructure may cause breakdowns and unplanned stoppages, which may result in production delays, increased costs and industrial accidents. Deep level gold mining shafts and processing plants are usually designed with a lifespan of 25 to 30 years. Vertical shafts consist of large quantities of infrastructure steelwork for guiding conveyances and services such as high voltage electric cables, air, backfill and water pipe columns and communication cables. Maintaining this infrastructure requires skilled human resources, capital allocation, management and planned maintenance. Once a shaft or a processing plant has reached the end of its intended lifespan, more than normal maintenance and care is required to maintain it. Nearly all of our operating shafts and processing plants are more than 30 years old. Although we have a comprehensive maintenance strategy in place, incidents resulting in production delays, increased costs or industrial accidents may occur. Such incidents may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Because our operations are concentrated in a few locations, disruptions in these locations could have a material adverse impact on its business operations. Our headquarters and all of our operations are located in the northern and southern margins of the Witwatersrand Basin in South Africa. The KDC operation is located in the Gauteng Province of South Africa, 60 kilometers southwest of Johannesburg, and the Beatrix operation is located in the Free State Province of South Africa, 240 kilometers southwest of Johannesburg. Our results of operations have been and are expected to continue to depend upon the reserves and production of our KDC and Beatrix operations. As a result, due to the geographic concentration of these operations, any adverse economic, political or social conditions affecting this region, as well as natural disasters or coordinated strikes or other work stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors—Risks related to South Africa”. Our business is subject to high fixed costs which may impact its profitability. The South African gold mining industry is labor intensive and is characterized by high fixed costs and by revenues that can fluctuate more, and more rapidly, than its cost drivers. The majority of operating costs of each mine do not vary significantly with amount of production and, therefore, a relatively small change in productivity could have a disproportionate effect on operating and financial results. Accordingly, a relatively minor shortfall from expected revenue levels could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s growth or financial performance. Labor has historically accounted for approximately half of our total operating expenses on an annual basis. A large proportion of other costs required to run the mines, including power, ventilation and cooling, are extremely difficult to reduce in a short period. Further, many of the costs described above continue to be incurred during strikes and work stoppages. Increases in fixed costs such as labor costs or electricity costs may cause marginal shafts or other areas at our operations to become uneconomical to mine. If this were to occur, it could reduce the amount of reserves declared by us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Costs”. 11 Table of Contents If we lose senior management or are unable to hire and retain sufficient technically skilled employees, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to operate or expand effectively depends largely on the experience, skills and performance of our senior management team and technically skilled employees. However, the mining industry in South Africa, including Sibanye Gold, continues to experience a shortage of qualified senior management and technically skilled employees. We cannot be certain that the services of our senior management and a sufficient number of our technically skilled employees will continue to be available to us. Any senior management departures, unavailability (due to death, injury, illness or other reasons) or technically skilled worker shortages could adversely affect our operational efficiency and production levels. We may be unable to hire or retain appropriate technically skilled employees or other management personnel, or may have to pay higher levels of remuneration than we currently intend in order to do so. For instance, the production of gold in South African deep level mines relies heavily upon rock drill operators and other operators of heavy machinery in underground conditions, and it is difficult to attract new entrants into these occupations. If we are unable to hire and retain appropriate management and technically skilled personnel, or if there are not sufficient succession plans in place, this could have a material adverse effect on our business (including production levels), results of operations and financial position. Because gold is generally sold in U.S. dollars, while virtually all of Sibanye Gold’s production costs are in Rand, Sibanye Gold’s operating results and financial condition will be materially harmed if there is a material appreciation in the value of the Rand. Gold is sold throughout the world principally in U.S. dollars, but virtually all of Sibanye Gold’s costs of production are incurred in Rand. As a result, any significant and sustained appreciation of the Rand against the U.S. dollar may materially increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In the fiscal year ended December 2011, movements in the U.S. dollar/Rand exchange rate impacted on Sibanye Gold’s results of operations as the Rand strengthened 1.1% against the U.S. dollar from an average of 7.30 in the fiscal year ended December 2010 to 7.22 in the fiscal year ended December 2011. In the fiscal year ended December 2012, movements in the U.S. dollar/Rand exchange rate had a significant impact on Sibanye Gold’s results of operations as the Rand depreciated 13.4% against the U.S. dollar, from an average of 7.22 in the fiscal year ended December 2011 to 8.19 in the fiscal year ended December 2012. Conversely, inflation in South Africa could increase the prices Sibanye Gold pays for products and services, including wages for its employees and power costs, which, if not offset by increased gold prices or currency devaluations, could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s financial condition and results of operations. Actual and potential supply chain shortages and increases in the prices of production inputs may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits. Sibanye Gold’s results of operations are affected by the availability and pricing of raw materials and other essential production inputs, including fuel, steel, cyanide and other reagents. The price and quality of raw materials may be substantially affected by changes in global supply and demand, along with weather conditions, governmental controls and other factors. A sustained interruption in the supply of any of these materials would require us to find acceptable substitute suppliers and could require us to pay higher prices for such materials. Any significant increase in the prices of these materials will increase Sibanye Gold’s operating costs and affect production considerations. Power stoppages, fluctuations and usage constraints may force Sibanye Gold to halt or curtail operations. In 2008, South Africa experienced disruptions in electrical power supply that impacted Sibanye Gold’s operations. The Department of Energy is in the process of developing a power conservation program, including 12 Table of Contents rules regarding baseline adjustments and load growth. However, there can be no assurance that this conservation program will ensure that there is sufficient electricity available for Sibanye Gold to run its operations at full capacity or at all. In October 2012, the South African state utility Eskom Limited, or Eskom, announced that its forecasted electricity sales for the financial year ended March 31, 2013 would be 2.5% lower than the previous year, but still warned that it may face constraints on the supply of power until the first units of its new power station come online by mid-2014, but still warned that it may face constraints on the supply of power over the next two years. Further, while the labor unrest in the second half of the fiscal year ended December 2012 reduced electricity demand, Eskom announced that it experienced a disruption in the supply of coal used to generate electricity due to other labor unrest in South Africa. Any disruption or decrease in the electrical power supply available to Sibanye Gold’s operations could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Sibanye Gold’s insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy potential claims. Sibanye Gold has an insurance program, however, it may become subject to liability for pollution, occupational illnesses or other hazards against which it has not insured, cannot insure or has insufficiently insured, including those in respect of past mining activities. Sibanye Gold’s existing property and liability insurance contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. Should Sibanye Gold suffer a major loss, future earnings could be affected. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future, Sibanye Gold’s insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against it, including, but not limited to, claims for environmental or industrial accidents, occupational illnesses or pollution or any cross-claims made. Theft of gold and production inputs and illegal mining occur on some of Sibanye Gold’s properties. These activities are difficult to control, can disrupt business and can expose Sibanye Gold to liability. Sibanye Gold’s properties have experienced illegal and artisanal mining activities and theft of gold bearing materials (which may be by employees or third parties). The activities of the illegal miners could cause pollution or other damage to Sibanye Gold’s properties, including underground fires, or personal injury or death, for which Sibanye Gold could potentially be held responsible. An increase in illegal or artisanal mining activities could result in depletion of mineral deposits, potentially making the future mining of such deposits uneconomic. The presence of illegal miners could lead to project delays and disputes regarding the development or operation of commercial gold deposits. An increase in the theft of gold or any inputs required for the production of gold may reduce the amount of gold that Sibanye Gold is able to recover from its operations. Rising gold prices may increase the likelihood of such thefts occurring. Illegal mining and theft could also result in lost gold reserves and mine stoppages, cause Sibanye Gold to incur fines or other costs and have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s financial condition or results of operations. To the extent that Sibanye Gold seeks to expand through acquisitions, it may experience problems in executing acquisitions or managing and integrating the acquisitions with its existing operations. We may selectively pursue opportunities to leverage processing capacity and infrastructure at our existing mines and processing hubs. Such opportunities may take the form of the acquisition of other companies, development projects or assets, or through joint ventures. Any such acquisition or joint venture may change the scale of Sibanye Gold’s business and operations and may expose it to new geographic, geological, political, social, operating, financial, legal, regulatory and contractual risks. For example: • there may be a significant change in commodity prices after Sibanye Gold has committed to complete a transaction and established a purchase price or share exchange ratio; • a material ore body may not meet expectations; • Sibanye Gold may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise, and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls; 13 Table of Contents • the integration may disrupt Sibanye Gold’s ongoing business and its relationships with employees (who may be subject to consolidation), suppliers and contractors; • an acquisition may divert management’s attention from Sibanye Gold’s day-to-day business; • the acquired business may have undetected liabilities which may be significant; and • in addition, to the extent Sibanye Gold participates in the development of a project through a joint venture or any other multi-party commercial structure, there could be disagreements, legal or otherwise, or divergent interests or goals amongst the parties, which could jeopardize the success of the project. There can be no assurance that any acquisition or joint venture will achieve the results intended. Any problems experienced by Sibanye Gold in connection with an acquisition or joint venture as a result of one or more of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent that Sibanye Gold seeks to expand its current mining operations, it may experience problems associated with mineral exploration or developing mining projects. In order to expand its operations and reserve base, Sibanye Gold may investigate the exploitation of mineralization below the current mining levels at KDC and the incremental expansion of its operations at Beatrix. Such projects involve many risks and are frequently unsuccessful. Any such program entails risks relating to the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate extractive processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and regulatory approvals and the extension of mining and processing facilities at the mining site. Sibanye Gold’s efforts may not result in an increase of its reserves. It can take a number of years and substantial expenditures for such expansions to provide a return on investment, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Furthermore, significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from such efforts. There is no assurance that Sibanye Gold will have, or be able to raise, the required funds to engage in these activities or to meet its obligations with respect to the properties in which it has or may acquire an interest. In addition, to the extent Sibanye Gold participates in the development of a project through a joint venture or any other multi-party commercial structure, there could be disagreements, legal or otherwise, or divergent interests or goals amongst the parties, which could jeopardize the success of the project. Sibanye Gold relies on information technology and communications systems, the failure of which could significantly impact its operations and business. Sibanye Gold relies on its information technology and communications systems, in particular its SAP, payroll and time and attendance applications. Sibanye Gold’s information technology and communications systems could be exposed to, among other things, damage or interruption from telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and malicious computer code, fire, natural disaster, power loss, industrial action and human error. While it has offsite backup systems in place, the occurrence of any of the above may also disrupt Sibanye Gold’s information technology and communications systems and may lead to important data (including geophysical and geological data) being irretrievably lost or damaged. Such damage or interruption may adversely affect Sibanye Gold’s business, prospects and results of operations. Sibanye Gold’s results of operations may be adversely impacted if it becomes obligated to make payments under certain guarantees it has provided on notes issued by Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited. On September 30, 2010, Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited, or Orogen, a subsidiary of Gold Fields, announced the issue of $1,000,000,000 4.875% guaranteed notes due October 7, 2020, or the Notes, issued on October 7, 2010. The payment of all amounts due in respect of the Notes was unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by Gold Fields, Sibanye Gold, Gold Fields Operations Limited, or GFO, and Gold Fields 14 Table of Contents Holdings Company (BVI) Limited, or GHO, or, together, the Guarantors, on a joint and several basis. The Notes and guarantees constitute direct, unsubordinated and (subject to the negative pledge provisions related to further capital market indebtedness) unsecured obligations of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively, and rank equally with all other existing and future unsubordinated and unsecured obligations from time to time outstanding of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively. Sibanye Gold will continue to be a Guarantor of the Notes and, if there is any default by Orogen or the other Guarantors related to the Notes, Sibanye Gold may become liable for the full amount of Orogen’s outstanding obligations. Each of Gold Fields and the other Guarantors have entered into an indemnity agreement, or the Indemnity Agreement, in favor of Sibanye Gold in order to indemnify Sibanye Gold against any loss caused to Sibanye Gold in circumstances where Sibanye Gold is required to make a payment to noteholders or the trustee of the Notes by virtue of its guarantee of the Notes. Despite this indemnification, if Sibanye Gold is not released as a Guarantor of the Notes, it may be difficult for Sibanye Gold to obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Further, if there is an event of default and monies payable under the Notes are accelerated and Gold Fields cannot or does not meet its obligation to indemnify Sibanye Gold for all or part of its guarantee, this will have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s operations and financial performance. See “Additional Information—Material Contracts—U.S.$1 billion Notes Issue Due 2020”. Among other things, if Sibanye Gold is required to make any payment pursuant to its guarantee under the Notes, this would constitute an event of default or a breach of Sibanye Gold’s other financing facilities. Any such event or breach may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s results of operations and financial condition. Further, market conditions may negatively impact Sibanye Gold’s ability to obtain financing for amounts it becomes required to pay under its obligations as guarantor, as well as the rate of interest required to finance these amounts. Risks related to South Africa Sibanye Gold is subject to the imposition of various cost imposts, such as mining taxes or royalties, which may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits. In recent years, governments (local and national), communities, non-governmental organizations and trade unions in several jurisdictions have sought and, in some cases, have implemented greater cost imposts on the mining industry, including through the imposition of additional taxes and royalties. In South Africa, the African National Congress, or the ANC, has adopted a recommendation which, among other things, proposed greater state intervention in the mining industry, including the revision of existing royalties, the imposition of new taxes and increasing the South African government’s holdings in mining companies. In June 2012, the recommendation was discussed at the national policy conference of the ANC. The conference recommended that the South African government take a more active role in the mining sector, including through the strengthening of a state mining company to be involved in new projects either through partnerships or individually. The policy conference’s recommendations were adopted as ANC policy during the national conference of the ANC held in December 2012. The adopted policy may impose additional restrictions, obligations, operational costs, taxes or royalty payments on gold mining companies, including Sibanye Gold, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. Economic, political or social instability affecting South Africa may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits. All of Sibanye Gold’s production is in South Africa. As a result, changes or instability affecting the economic, political or social environment in South Africa could affect an investment in Sibanye Gold. As noted above, the South African mining industry, including Sibanye Gold, was the target of large-scale labor strikes in the fiscal year ended December 2012. Labor unrest has increased in the South African mining industry and the entry of rival unions has contributed to increased violence and greater frequency of unrest. 15 Table of Contents Sibanye Gold may be subject to actions by labor groups or other interested parties who object to perceived or actual conditions and policies at its mines or to perceived or actual environmental impact of such mines. Such action may also be influenced by political forces within South Africa. Additionally, the proliferation of social media and other internet technologies may contribute to negative publicity relating to any actual or perceived environmental, labor or other issues at Sibanye Gold’s operations. These actions may delay or halt production, increase production costs, result in liability, lead to greater costs or may create negative publicity related to Sibanye Gold. Additionally, these actions, and especially those related to labor groups and work stoppages, can lead to a loss of investor confidence in the South African gold industry in general, which may restrict Sibanye Gold’s access to international financing and could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. For example, in the second half of 2012, South Africa’s sovereign credit rating was lowered by certain rating agencies, resulting in higher interest rates for South Africa’s sovereign debt, which may in turn adversely affect South Africa’s economy. The credit ratings of a number of the country’s leading mining companies were also downgraded. This may adversely affect Sibanye Gold and other South African companies in various ways, including by causing a potential downgrade of such companies’ credit ratings. This could lead to increased borrowing costs for Sibanye Gold and a diminished ability to raise capital from the international debt markets in the future. In recent years, South Africa has continued to experience high levels of crime and unemployment. These problems may have impacted fixed inward investment into South Africa and have prompted emigration of skilled workers. As a result, Sibanye Gold may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified local employees. There has also been regional, political and economic instability in certain countries surrounding South Africa. Any similar political or economic instability in South Africa could have a negative impact on Sibanye Gold’s ability to manage and operate its South African operations. Numerous public statements have also been made about the nationalization of South African mines by labor unions and political groups in South Africa. While the official policy of the South African government and the ANC, which was confirmed at the ANC conference that took place during December 2012, is not to nationalize mines, these comments and any other potential threats of nationalization may negatively affect the perceived value of Sibanye Gold’s property and investors’ perceptions of South Africa. It remains unclear what effect the policies adopted at this conference will have on the South African gold mining industry or on Sibanye Gold specifically. Any threat of, or actual proceeding to, nationalize any of Sibanye Gold’s assets could halt or curtail operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition and could cause the value of Sibanye Gold’s securities to decline rapidly and dramatically, possibly causing investors to lose the entirety of their respective investments. Power cost increases may adversely affect Sibanye Gold’s results of operations. Sibanye Gold’s mining operations depend upon electrical power generated by the state utility provider, Eskom. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Costs”. Eskom holds a monopoly on power supply in the South African market. In calendar year 2009, Eskom applied to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa, or NERSA, for a 35% average tariff increase on each of April 1, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and NERSA granted average increases of 24.8%, 25.8% and 25.9%, respectively. However, in April 2012, Eskom implemented an average tariff increase of 16%. On February 28, 2013, NERSA announced that it had approved an 8% per annum average increase in the electricity tariff over the next five year period but such average increases for the mining and industrial sectors may be greater. Eskom announced its intention to institute an average annual tariff increase of 8.0% and 9.6% for industrial users for the five-year period starting April 1, 2013. Therefore, we expect further significant additional increases during the next several years as Eskom embarks on an electricity generation capacity expansion program. Should Sibanye Gold experience further power tariff increases, its results of operations may be adversely impacted. 16 Table of Contents Sibanye Gold’s financial flexibility could be materially constrained by South African exchange control regulations. South Africa’s exchange control regulations, or the Exchange Control Regulations, restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, or the CMA. Transactions between South African residents (including companies) and non-residents of the CMA are subject to exchange controls enforced by the South African Reserve Bank, or SARB. As a result, Sibanye Gold’s ability to raise and deploy capital outside the CMA is restricted. These restrictions could hinder Sibanye Gold’s financial and strategic flexibility, particularly its ability to raise funds outside South Africa. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Exchange Controls”. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may materially adversely affect Sibanye Gold’s operations. Energy is a significant input to Sibanye Gold’s mining and processing operations, with its principal energy sources being electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. There is a substantial weight of scientific evidence concluding that carbon emissions from fossil fuel-based energy consumption contribute to global warming, greenhouse effects and climate change. A number of governments, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change that may restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. The South African government is considering the introduction of a carbon tax with effect from January 1, 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The South African 2012 Budget review indicated that the proposed carbon tax will be R120 per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent, or CO2 emitted above certain thresholds. The tax rate will increase by 10% a year, reaching R210 per ton of CO2 by 2020. However, 60% of emissions would initially be tax exempt. The 60% discount will continue to apply until 2020 along with certain “offsets” of 5% or 10% of tax liability, a carbon intensity correction based on industry benchmarks and a correction for international trade exposure of 5% or 10% of tax liability, which together may allow for a cumulative reprieve from tax liability of up to 90%. The 60% discount and the associated tax reprieves will be scaled back gradually from 2020 until 2050 and may be replaced by absolute emissions thresholds thereafter. If the proposed carbon tax had been in effect in the fiscal year ended December 2012 (as proposed), management estimates this would have introduced an additional cost of R37.5 million. The 2013 Budget Review indicated that an updated policy paper would be published by March 31, 2013 for further comment and consultation; however, as of the date of this annual report, the policy paper had not been published. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Environmental.” From a medium and long-term perspective, Sibanye Gold is likely to see an increase in costs relating to its energy-intensive assets and assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in South Africa. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and are likely to impact Sibanye Gold’s operations directly or the cost of doing business, for example by increasing the costs of its suppliers or customers. These costs may include, among others, emission measurement and reduction, audit processes and human resource costs. Non-compliance with statutory initiatives may result in monetary liabilities. Insurance premiums may increase and Sibanye Gold’s position relative to industry competitors may change. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in South Africa. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on Sibanye Gold’s operations are highly uncertain. They may include changes in rainfall patterns and intensities, water shortages, extreme weather conditions and changing temperatures. Flooding could disrupt mining, processing and transportation, and result in increased health and safety risks. Extreme weather conditions may negatively impact Sibanye Gold’s workforce. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of Sibanye Gold’s operations. 17 Table of Contents HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other contagious diseases pose risks to Sibanye Gold in terms of lost productivity and increased costs. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa poses risks to Sibanye Gold in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and other costs. Management has recently estimated that approximately 18% of Sibanye Gold’s workforce is infected with HIV. Increasingly, we are seeing an adverse impact of HIV/AIDS on our affected employees similar to that experienced by other companies in the South African mining sector, evidenced by increased absenteeism and reduced productivity. Compounding this are the concomitant infections, such as tuberculosis, that can accompany HIV illness, particularly at the end stages, and cause additional healthcare-related costs. In South Africa, the incidence of tuberculosis in mine workers is aggravated by exposure to crystalline silica dust and by compromised immunity due to HIV infection. HIV/AIDS remains an important focus for Sibanye Gold, and it will continue its extensive intervention campaigns. However, the potential impact of HIV/AIDS on Sibanye Gold’s operations and financial condition is significant. Factors influencing the impact of HIV/AIDS include the incidence of HIV infection among Sibanye Gold’s employees and the surrounding community, the impact on employees’ productivity, treatment costs and other costs. Most of these factors are beyond Sibanye Gold’s control. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Health and Safety—HIV/AIDS Program”. Additionally, the spread of contagious diseases such as respiratory diseases, including seasonal flu and latent epidemics like avian, swine flu and severe acute respiratory syndrom (SARS), are exacerbated by communal housing and close quarters. Although Sibanye Gold is in the process of improving housing facilities at its mines, the spread of such diseases could impact employees’ productivity, treatment costs and therefore operational costs. Sibanye Gold’s operations are subject to South African environmental and health and safety regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens, and Sibanye Gold may face claims and liability for breaches, or alleged breaches, of such regulations and other applicable laws. Sibanye Gold’s operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including, for example, those relating to waste treatment and disposal, emissions and water management. Further, Sibanye Gold must comply with permits or standards governing, among other things, land rehabilitation, tailings and waste disposal areas, water consumption, air emissions, water discharges, naturally occurring radioactive material, transportation of ore or hazardous substances, power use and generation, use and storage of explosives, housing and other facilities for workers, reclamation, labor standards and mine safety and occupational health. For example, in South Africa, Sibanye Gold is required to secure estimated environmental rehabilitation costs for rehabilitation of a mine during and particularly after the mine has been closed in terms of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act No. 28 of 2002, or the MPRDA. Sibanye Gold may in the future incur significant costs to comply with South African environmental requirements imposed under existing or new legislation, regulations or permit requirements, or to comply with changes in existing laws and regulations or the manner in which they are applied. Sibanye Gold may also be subject to litigation and other costs as a result of environmental rights granted to individuals under South Africa’s Constitution or other sources of environmental rights. These costs could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Environmental”. Sibanye Gold’s operations are also subject to various South African health and safety laws and regulations that impose various duties on Sibanye Gold’s mines while granting the authorities broad powers to, among other things, close or suspend operations at unsafe mines and order corrective action relating to health and safety matters. Under these health and safety laws and regulations, Sibanye Gold may also be subject to prosecution for industrial accidents as well as significant penalties and fines for non-compliance. Any changes to the health and safety laws which increase the burden of compliance or the penalties for non-compliance may cause Sibanye Gold to incur further significant costs. 18 Table of Contents Further, certain targets were set by the Mine Health and Safety Council, or the MHSC, a body consisting of representatives from the government, mining companies and unions, for the reduction of accidents, noise and silicosis to be achieved by 2013. If a mine fails to achieve these targets, or it is found to be in excess of noise or silicosis limits generally, the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate, or the MHSI, could potentially order that operations be halted at any time due to overexposure of employees to unsafe or unhealthy working conditions. We expect that the MHSC targets related to the reduction of accidents, noise and silicosis will be revised to tighten these standards over the next several years. The principal health risks associated with Sibanye Gold’s mining operations arise from occupational exposure and community environmental exposure to silica dust, noise and certain hazardous substances, including toxic gases and radioactive particulates. The most significant occupational diseases affecting Sibanye Gold’s workforce include lung diseases (such as silicosis, tuberculosis, a combination of the two and chronic obstructive airways disease, or COAD) as well as noise-induced hearing loss, or NIHL. The Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act, No. 78 of 1973, or ODMWA, governs the payment of compensation and medical costs for certain illnesses, such as silicosis, contracted by those employed in mines or at sites where activities ancillary to mining are conducted. Recently, the South African Constitutional Court ruled that a claim for compensation under the ODMWA does not prevent the employee from seeking to recover compensation from the employer concerned in a civil action under common law (either as individuals or as a class). While issues, such as negligence and causation, need to be proved on a case-by-case basis, it is nevertheless possible that such a ruling could expose Sibanye Gold to claims related to occupational hazards and diseases (including silicosis or other ailments alleged to arise due to exposure to hazardous materials and substances), which may be in the form of a class action or similar group action. Although community exposure tends to be lower than occupational exposure, such actions may also arise in connection with the incidence of such diseases in communities proximate to Sibanye Gold’s mines. In the second half of 2012, two suits were filed against several South African mining companies, including Gold Fields and Sibanye Gold, on behalf of current and former gold mine workers and the dependants of gold mine workers who have contracted or died from silicosis or other occupational lung diseases. If a significant number of such claims were suitably established against Sibanye Gold, the payment of compensation for the claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may incur significant additional costs arising out of these issues, including costs relating to the payment of fees, increased levies or other contributions in respect of compensatory or other funds established (if any) and expenditures arising out of our efforts to remediate these matters or resolve any outstanding claims or other potential action. Further, we expect that the levels of statutory compensation payable to individuals may be increased over the next several years. Sibanye Gold monitors health and safety issues in several jurisdictions. One issue that has arisen in the context of the United States is diesel particulate matter, or DPM. While regulations and litigation regarding DPM have not occurred in South Africa, we expect that these issues may arise in the future. Therefore, we are currently unable to estimate any costs relating to new regulations or potential litigation around this issue; however, any such regulations or litigation could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. A number of accidents, many of which resulted in fatalities, have recently occurred at various mining operations in South Africa, including at Sibanye Gold’s operations. For example, on February 20, 2013, Shaft No. 4 at Beatrix was closed following a fire. The fire did not result in any fatalities, and the shaft partially reopened on February 26, 2013. However, management expects that the area directly affected by the fire may not be fully accessible until June 2014 at the earliest. As a result of the fire, Sibanye Gold has entered into a consultation process with the labor unions and the DMR to consider available options, including retrenchments, at Beatrix. On June 30, 2012, the KDC mine was closed after a fire at its No. 4 (west), or Ya Rona shaft, resulted in five fatalities. KDC East reopened on July 3, 2012 and KDC West reopened on July 9, 2012. The fire in the 19 Table of Contents affected shaft was extinguished on August 14, 2012; however, this shaft remained closed subject to a Section 54 order issued by the DMR and reopened on October 17, 2012, although production did not recommence at that time due to the labor actions described above. See “Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits have been or may be adversely affected by strikes and union activity and new and existing labor law”. Prior to the Spin-off, Sibanye Gold launched an internal investigation into the fire at KDC in order to better understand the cause of this accident. South Africa’s deputy Mineral Resources Minister has stated that the ministry may increase sanctions, including closures, for mines in which fatalities occur because of violations of health and safety rules. As occurred in June, the DMR can and does issue, in the ordinary course of its operations, instructions, including Section 54 orders, following safety incidents or accidents to partially or completely halt operations at affected mines. It is Sibanye Gold’s policy to halt production at its operations when serious accidents occur in order to rectify dangerous situations and, if necessary, retrain workers. In addition, there can be no assurance that the unions will not take industrial action in response to such accidents, which could lead to losses in Sibanye Gold’s production. Any additional stoppages in production, or increased costs associated with such incidents, could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. Such incidents may also negatively affect Sibanye Gold’s reputation with, among others, employees and unions and South African regulators. In April 2009, the Mine Health and Safety Amendment Bill became law, resulting in more stringent regulations regarding mine health and safety, to which Sibanye Gold is subject. Additionally, Sibanye Gold may be subject to an increased risk of prosecution for industrial accidents, as well as greater penalties, including mine closure, and fines for non-compliance. Further, any changes to the health and safety laws which increase the burden of compliance or the penalties for non-compliance may cause Sibanye Gold to incur further significant costs. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Health and Safety”. Sibanye Gold’s operations are subject to water use licenses, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Under South African law, Sibanye Gold’s operations are subject to water use licenses that govern each operation’s water usage and that require, among other things, mining operations to achieve and maintain certain water quality limits regarding all water discharges. The Kloof operation (now part of the jointly managed KDC Operation) was issued a water use license in December 2008 that expired in December 2011. Gold Fields, the former parent company of Sibanye Gold, applied for renewal of, and amendments to, this license. Pending approval of the Kloof water use license, Gold Fields obtained a regulatory directive, or the Kloof Directive, from the Department of Water Affairs, or the DWA, that permits the continuation of water uses at its Kloof operations while its application for renewal of, and amendments to, its water use license was being processed. Prior to February 2011, the Kloof operation had been in compliance with the license granted to it in 2008. However, from February 2011 to September 2011, the water discharged from one of the shafts of the KDC mine covered by the Kloof license exceeded the discharge parameters specified by the license. Gold Fields informed the DWA and other relevant regulators and has investigated the cause of the increased discharge. One of the key findings of the investigation was that the increased discharge was most likely due to external variables beyond the control of the KDC operation. Based on this information, the Kloof Directive included an increase to the discharge limits of that specific discharge point. As of December 9, 2011, the date of issue of the Kloof Directive, the water discharged from the shaft covered by the Kloof water use license has been in compliance with the discharge parameters specified in the directive. Monitoring of the discharge quality is ongoing. However, there can be no assurance that the water discharge from the KDC operation will remain within these discharge parameters, that the renewed Kloof license will be granted or that it will be granted with the increased discharge limit provided by the Kloof Directive. The Driefontein operation (now part of the KDC mine) was also issued a water use license in October 2010. However, due to certain inaccuracies and discrepancies in the information provided for the water use license, Sibanye Gold has remained in discussions with the DWA to revise the license. In addition, once this process is complete, Sibanye Gold intends to apply for an amendment to the Driefontein water use license to add certain water uses not previously required. Sibanye Gold believes that it is discharging water within the parameters of the Driefontein license, but there can be 20 Table of Contents no assurance that a revised license will be issued or that the DWA will determine that Sibanye Gold is in compliance with its requirements. The DWA has advised Beatrix, which had pre-existing water permits of indefinite length, that its current water usage remains authorized and it need not apply for a new license. However, Beatrix has nevertheless proactively submitted a water use license application, which is currently being processed. Therefore, management believes that its operations now have all required authorizations to undertake regulated water uses for purposes of carrying out its mining operations. Sibanye Gold has identified a risk of potential long-term acid mine drainage, or AMD, issues which are currently experienced by peer mining groups. AMD relates to the acidification and contamination of naturally occurring water resources by pyrite-bearing ore contained in underground mines and in rock dumps, tailings dams and pits on the surface. Sibanye Gold has commissioned several technical studies to identify the steps required to prevent AMD at its facilities, but none of these studies have allowed Sibanye Gold to generate a reliable estimate of the potential impact of AMD on Sibanye Gold. If Sibanye Gold were to experience any AMD issues, it could cause Sibanye Gold to fail to comply with its water use license requirements and could expose Sibanye Gold to potential liabilities. While Sibanye Gold is investigating a water treatment strategy in an effort to satisfy the conditions of new water use licenses and prevent potential AMD issues, there can be no assurance that Sibanye Gold will be in compliance with its licensing agreements within the required timeframe due primarily to the associated regulatory approval processes and commercial agreements that are required for the water treatment strategy. Sibanye Gold expects to incur significant expenditure to achieve and maintain compliance with the license requirements at each of its operations. Any failure on Sibanye Gold’s part to achieve or maintain compliance with the requirements of these licenses with respect to any of its operations could result in Sibanye Gold being subject to substantial claims, penalties, fees and expenses; significant delays in operations; or the loss of the relevant water use license, which could curtail or halt production at the affected operation. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. Sibanye Gold’s mineral rights are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens. The MPRDA came into effect on May 1, 2004, together with the implementation of a broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter, or the Mining Charter, for effecting entry of historically disadvantaged South Africans, or HDSAs, into the mining industry. Among other things, the Mining Charter required (i) each mining company to achieve a 15% HDSA ownership of mining assets within five years of the Mining Charter coming into effect and a 26% HDSA ownership of mining assets within 10 years of the Mining Charter coming into effect, (ii) the mining industry as a whole to agree to assist HDSA companies in securing finance to fund participation in an amount of R100 billion over the first five years and (iii) mining companies to spell out plans for achieving employment equity at management level with a view to achieving a baseline of 40% HDSA participation in management and 10% participation by women in the mining industry, in each case within five years. The Mining Charter does not form part of the MPRDA and there is uncertainty relating to its enforceability. Following a review and as anticipated, the DMR released the Amended Mining Charter on September 13, 2010. The Amended Mining Charter does not form part of the MPRDA and there is uncertainty relating to its enforceability. The requirement under the Mining Charter for mining entities to achieve a 26% HDSA ownership of mining assets by the year 2014 was retained. Amendments to the Mining Charter in the Amended Mining Charter include, inter alia, the requirement by mining companies to: (a) facilitate local beneficiation of mineral commodities; (b) procure a minimum of 40% of capital goods, 70% of services and 50% of consumer goods from HDSA suppliers (i.e. suppliers in which a minimum of 25% + 1 vote of their share capital must be owned by HDSAs) by 2014 (exclusive of non-discretionary procurement expenditure); (c) ensure that multinational suppliers of capital goods contribute a minimum of 0.5% of their annual income generated from South African mining companies into a social development fund from 2010 towards the socio-economic development of South African communities; (d) achieve a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation by 2014 at executive 21 Table of Contents management (board) level, senior management (executive committee) level, core and critical skills, middle management level and junior management level; (e) invest up to 5% of annual payroll in essential skills development activities; and (f) implement measures to improve the standards of housing and living conditions for mineworkers by converting or upgrading mineworkers’ hostels into family units, attaining an occupancy rate of one person per room and facilitating home ownership options for all mineworkers in consultation with organized labor, all of which must be achieved by 2014. In addition, mining companies are required to monitor and evaluate their compliance to the Amended Mining Charter, and must submit annual compliance reports to the DMR. The Scorecard for the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry attached to the Amended Mining Charter, or the Scorecard, makes provision for a phased-in approach for compliance with the above targets over the period ending in 2014. For measurement purposes, the Scorecard allocates various weightings to the different elements of the Amended Mining Charter. In December 2012, a draft Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Development Bill, 2012, or MPRDB, was published for comment, with the stated purpose of, among other things, removing ambiguities and enhancing sanctions. However, the MPRDB has been criticized for introducing new and burdensome regulations relating to, among other things, the upstream beneficiation of minerals, the status of tailings created prior to the commencement of the MPRDA, closure certificates, restricting the transfer of shares in listed and unlisted mining companies and retaining undue regulatory discretion over the conditions for, and issuance of, prospecting, mining and other rights. The MPRDB also seeks to significantly increase the penalties that may be imposed for, among other things, non-compliance with the MPRDA, other relevant law, the terms and conditions of a right or a social and labor plan. While it is anticipated that the MPRDB may undergo various amendments before it becomes law, the passage of the MPRDB may subject companies in the mining industry, like Sibanye Gold, to more stringent regulation in the future. In accordance with the MPRDA, the DMR on April 29, 2009 published a Code of Good Practice for the Minerals Industry and the Housing and Living Condition Standard for the Mining Industry, or the Code, relating to the socio-economic transformation of the mining industry. However, certain provisions of the Code appeared to be inconsistent with the Mining Charter, or to go beyond the scope envisaged in the MPRDA. Various industry participants have been in discussions with the DMR regarding the scope and applicability of the Code. It is anticipated that the contents of the Code will ultimately be amended to be made consistent with the Amended Mining Charter. Details of when this will happen and the contents of the final Code are currently uncertain. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Mineral Rights—The MPRDA”. The acquisition by Mvelaphanda Resources Limited, or Mvela Resources, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Mvelaphanda Gold Limited, or Mvela Gold, of 15% shareholding in Sibanye Gold, the corporate entity which held Gold Fields’ South African mining assets at the time, for a cash consideration of R4,139 million was effected in March 2009 for Gold Fields to comply with the 15% HDSA minimum ownership guideline within five years of the Mining Charter coming into effect. Immediately upon receipt of the Sibanye Gold shares, Mvela Gold exercised its right to exchange the Sibanye Gold shares for 50 million new Gold Fields shares. Pursuant to the above transactions, Mvela Gold owned approximately 7% of the listed shares of Gold Fields and Gold Fields again owned 100% of Sibanye Gold. As at January 31, 2011, Mvela Gold had sold or distributed to its shareholders all of its remaining shares of Gold Fields and ceased to be a shareholder of the Gold Fields and its subsidiaries, or the Gold Fields Group. During the six-month transition period ended December 2010, Gold Fields completed three further empowerment transactions which ensured Gold Fields’ compliance with the 2014 Black Economic Empowerment, or BEE, equity ownership guidelines. These transactions included an Employee Share Option Plan, or ESOP, housed through the Thusano Share Trust for 10.75% of Sibanye Gold (represented by 13.5 million unencumbered Gold Fields shares with full voting rights); a broad-based BEE transaction for 10% of South Deep with a phased in participation over 20 years and a broad-based BEE transaction for a further 1% of Sibanye Gold, excluding South Deep. The three transactions had a combined value of approximately R2.4 billion. See “Additional Information—Material Contracts—Additional Black Economic Empowerment Transactions”. Based on these transactions as implemented by Gold Fields, Sibanye Gold believes that it has met its BEE equity requirements and that the BEE status of Sibanye Gold will not be affected by the listing and the Spin-off. 22 Table of Contents Failure by Sibanye Gold (by virtue of Gold Fields’ empowerment initiatives) to comply with the current 15% minimum HDSA ownership guideline, the 26% minimum HDSA ownership guideline as of 2014 or any of the other empowerment requirements set out in the MPRDA may amount to breach of the MPRDA, may result in the cancellation or suspension of Sibanye Gold’s existing mining rights and may prevent Sibanye Gold’s operations from obtaining any new mining rights. The Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, No. 53, 2003, or the BBBEE Act, established a national policy on broad-based black economic empowerment, or BBBEE, with the objective of increasing the participation of HDSAs in the economy. The BBBEE Act provides for various measures to promote black economic empowerment, including empowering the Minister of Trade and Industry to issue the BBBEE Codes with which organs of state and public entities and parties interacting with them or obtaining rights and licenses from them would be required to comply. There has been some debate as to whether or to what extent the mining industry was subject to the BBBEE Act and the policies and codes provided for thereunder. On November 23, 2012, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Amendment Bill, or the BBBEE Amendment Bill, was published in the Government Gazette. The BBBEE Amendment Bill has the effect of expanding and strengthening the black economic empowerment provisions of the BBBEE Act. It was expected that the draft bill would have clarified the extent, if any, of the application of the BBBEE Act to the mining industry, but such clarification has not been provided for in the draft bill. While it is anticipated that the draft bill will undergo various amendments before it becomes law, it should be appreciated that a risk exists that the companies in the mining industry may become subject to more stringent black economic empowerment regulation. There is no guarantee that any steps that Gold Fields has already taken, or that Gold Fields or Sibanye Gold might take in the future, will ensure the successful renewal of Sibanye Gold’s existing mining rights, the retaining of new mining rights, the granting of further new mining rights or that the terms of renewals of its rights would not be significantly less favorable to Sibanye Gold than the terms of its current rights. Any further adjustment to the ownership structure of Sibanye Gold’s mining assets in order to meet the MPRDA’s BEE requirements or the Amended Mining Charter’s requirements could have a material adverse effect on the value of Sibanye Gold’s securities, and any failure to comply with the MPRDA’s BEE requirements or the Amended Mining Charter’s requirements could subject Sibanye Gold to negative consequences, the scope of which have not yet been fully determined, but which may include, among other things, the loss of one or more mining rights. As noted, the ANC adopted a policy conference recommendation which, among other things, proposes greater state intervention in the mining industry. Sibanye Gold may in the future incur significant costs as a result of changes in the interpretation of existing laws, or the imposition of new laws, which may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, operating results and financial condition. Risks related to the Spin-off Sibanye Gold may not realize the potential benefits from the Spin-off. Sibanye Gold may not realize the potential benefits that it expects from the Spin-off from Gold Fields. We have described these anticipated benefits elsewhere in this annual report. See “Information on the Company—Strategy.” In addition, Sibanye Gold will incur significant costs which may exceed its estimates. Sibanye Gold will incur some negative effects from its separation from Gold Fields, including loss of access to the financial, managerial and professional resources from which it has benefited in the past. 23 Table of Contents Sibanye Gold’s Historical Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this document are not necessarily indicative of its future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows, nor do they reflect what its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. The Historical Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report do not reflect what its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of its future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Sibanye Gold’s Historical Consolidated Financial Statements reflect charges for services historically provided by Gold Fields, and those charges may be different to the comparable expenses Sibanye Gold would have incurred as an independent company; • Sibanye Gold’s working capital requirements historically have been satisfied as part of Gold Fields’ corporate-wide cash management programs, and Sibanye Gold’s cost of debt and other capital may be different from that reflected in its Historical Consolidated Financial Statements; • the Historical Consolidated Financial Statements may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes that will occur in Sibanye Gold’s cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of its spin-off from Gold Fields, including all the costs related to being an independent public company; and • the Historical Consolidated Financial Statements may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that will be incurred or assumed by Sibanye Gold and may not fully reflect the effects of certain assets that will be transferred to, and liabilities that will be assumed by, Gold Fields. Sibanye Gold has no history operating as an independent public company. Sibanye Gold will incur significant expenses to create the corporate infrastructure necessary to operate as an independent public company, and will experience increased ongoing costs in connection with being an independent public company. Sibanye Gold has historically used Gold Fields’ corporate infrastructure to support many of its business functions. The expenses related to establishing and maintaining this infrastructure have historically been spread among all of the Gold Fields businesses. Following the Spin-off, Sibanye Gold will no longer have access to Gold Fields’ infrastructure, and will need to establish its own. Gold Fields currently provides purchasing, corporate communications, human resources and benefit management, treasury and finance, investor relations, corporate controller, internal audit, legal and tax advice, compliance regarding internal controls and information technology functions to Sibanye Gold. The total cost of these services from Gold Fields was $8.4 million in the fiscal year ended December 2012. As an independent, publicly traded company, and effective as of Sibanye Gold’s separation from Gold Fields, Sibanye Gold will assume responsibility for the costs of these functions. Accordingly, Sibanye Gold’s consolidated results of operations are not necessarily indicative of its future performance and do not reflect what its financial performance would have been had Sibanye Gold been an independent publicly traded company during the periods presented. Management expects, subject to the finalization of Sibanye Gold’s plans, that the total annual costs for the abovementioned functions will be approximately $8.6 million in 2013. However, management also expects that Sibanye Gold will benefit from certain rationalizations, including the renegotiation of contracts, which should offset these incremental expenses. Following the Spin-off, Gold Fields will continue to provide some of these services to Sibanye Gold on a transitional basis for a period expected to be up to one year, pursuant to the transitional services agreement between Sibanye Gold and Gold Fields signed on December 21, 2012, or the Transitional Services Agreement. For more information regarding the Transitional Services Agreement, see “Additional Information—Material Contracts—Transitional Services Agreement”. However, Sibanye Gold cannot be sure that all these functions will be successfully executed by Gold Fields during the transition period or that Sibanye Gold will not have to expend significant efforts or costs materially in excess of those estimated in the Transitional Services Agreement. 24 Table of Contents Any interruption in these services could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, at the end of this transition period, Sibanye Gold will need to perform these functions itself or hire third parties to perform these functions on its behalf. The costs associated with performing or outsourcing these functions may exceed the amounts reflected in Sibanye Gold’s historical combined financial statements or that Sibanye Gold has agreed to pay Gold Fields during the transition period. A significant increase in the costs of performing or outsourcing these functions could materially and adversely affect Sibanye Gold’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Sibanye Gold will not be able to rely on Gold Fields to fund its future capital requirements and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms. In the past, Sibanye Gold’s capital needs have been satisfied by Gold Fields. However, following the Spin-off, Gold Fields will no longer provide funds to finance Sibanye Gold’s working capital or other cash requirements. Sibanye Gold’s future capital and funding requirements will depend on many factors, including its revenues, which are primarily driven by Sibanye Gold’s production levels and its realized gold price, its wages, royalties and other fees, its rate of growth, its exploration efforts, its infrastructure investment and its maintenance requirements. Sibanye Gold may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. Management expects that Sibanye Gold’s credit rating will not be investment grade and, as a consequence, it may not be able to obtain financing with interest rates as favorable as those that it could benefit from while a member of the Gold Fields Group. Further, following the Spin-off, Sibanye Gold’s business and operations will be concentrated in South Africa. As noted, certain factors beyond Sibanye Gold’s control may negatively influence investors’ risk perceptions of South Africa or emerging markets generally, and negatively impact Sibanye Gold’s access to international capital markets. See “—Economic, political or social instability affecting South Africa may have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s operations and profits”. If Sibanye Gold cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, it may not be able to further develop its business or invest in new products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or meet its financing obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Sibanye Gold’s accounting and other management systems and resources will have to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which it will be subject following the Spin-off. Sibanye Gold’s costs of operating as a public company will be significant and will require management to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. Sibanye Gold’s financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Gold Fields, and management believes that its reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, Sibanye Gold was not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the JSE, the rules of the NYSE or the Exchange Act. As a result of the Spin-off, Sibanye Gold will be directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the requirements of the JSE, the NYSE and the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with the filing of Sibanye Gold’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2013. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on Sibanye Gold’s management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, management anticipates that Sibanye Gold will need to upgrade its systems, including information technology, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting and finance staff. Management expects to incur additional annual expenses related to these steps, and those expenses may be significant. Management cannot be certain that any necessary upgrade of its financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures will occur as expected, or that these management controls, reporting systems, information technology or procedures ensure compliance with financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the regulations of the 25 Table of Contents JSE, the NYSE and the Exchange Act. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s reputation business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Several members of the Board and management may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their ownership of shares of Gold Fields. One member of the board of directors of Sibanye Gold, or the Directors, sits on the board of directors of Gold Fields, our former parent. This Director is expected to vacate his Sibanye Gold directorship within 12 months of his appointment. Further, several members of the Board and several executive officers of Sibanye Gold, or the Executive Officers, also own shares in Gold Fields and/or options to purchase ordinary shares of Gold Fields because of their current or prior relationships with Gold Fields, which could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Directors and Executive Officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Sibanye Gold and Gold Fields. An actual or potential conflict of interest could preclude a member of the Board from taking part in decisions relating to Sibanye Gold’s management and operation. If the Board cannot obtain the necessary quorum due to Directors recusing themselves as a result of such conflicts or potential conflicts, Sibanye Gold may not be able to take certain corporate actions, which could have an adverse effect on Sibanye Gold’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Directors and Executive Officers—Share Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers”. Risks related to Sibanye Gold’s shares and ADRs Shareholders outside South Africa may not be able to participate in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Sibanye Gold. Securities laws of certain jurisdictions may restrict Sibanye Gold’s ability to allow participation by certain shareholders in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Sibanye Gold. In particular, holders of Sibanye Gold securities who are located in the United States (including those who hold ordinary shares or ADRs) may not be able to participate in securities offerings by or on behalf of Sibanye Gold unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such securities or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available thereunder. Securities laws of certain other jurisdictions may also restrict Sibanye Gold’s ability to allow the participation of all holders in such jurisdictions in future issues of securities carried out by Sibanye Gold. Holders who have a registered address or are resident in, or who are citizens of, countries other than South Africa should consult their professional advisors as to whether they require any governmental or other consent or approvals or need to observe any other formalities to enable them to participate in any offering of Sibanye Gold securities. Investors in the United States and other jurisdictions outside South Africa may have difficulty bringing actions, and enforcing judgments, against Sibanye Gold, the Directors and the Executive Officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any state thereof or under the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa. Sibanye Gold is incorporated in South Africa. All of the Directors and Executive Officers (as well as Sibanye Gold’s independent registered public accounting firm) reside outside of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of the assets of Sibanye Gold are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce against these persons or Sibanye Gold a judgment obtained in a United States court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities or other laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, investors in other jurisdictions outside South Africa may face similar difficulties. 26 Table of Contents Investors should be aware that it is the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, it does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment is contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. South African courts will usually implement their own procedural laws and, where an action based on an international contract is brought before a South African court, the capacity of the parties to the contract will usually be determined in accordance with South African law. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws or the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa may be brought before South African courts. Further, a plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. In addition, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South Africa. Investors should also be aware that a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts, provided that: • the court which pronounced the judgment had jurisdiction to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; • the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); • the judgment has not lapsed; • the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that the documents initiating the proceedings outside South Africa were properly served on the defendant and that the defendant was given the right to be heard and represented by counsel in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; • the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means; • the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or revenue law; and • the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Businesses Act, No. 99 of 1978, as amended, of South Africa. Investors may face liquidity risk in trading Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares on the JSE. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. The ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares on the JSE in a timely manner, especially in a large block trade, may be restricted by this limited liquidity. See “The Offer and Listing—JSE Limited”. Sibanye Gold may not pay dividends or make similar payments to its shareholders in the future due to various factors, including restrictions in its financing arrangements, and any dividend payments may be subject to withholding tax. Sibanye Gold may pay cash dividends only if funds are available for that purpose. Whether funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including the amount of cash available and Sibanye Gold’s capital expenditures (on both existing infrastructure as well as on exploration and other projects) and other cash requirements existing at the time. Under South African law, Sibanye Gold will be entitled to pay a dividend or similar payment to its shareholders only if it meets the solvency and liquidity tests set out in the Companies Act, and is permitted to do so in terms of Sibanye Gold’s Memorandum of Incorporation, or the Memorandum of Incorporation. On November 28, 2012, Sibanye Gold entered into an agreement regarding a new R2.0 billion 27 Table of Contents revolving credit facility and a R4.0 billion term loan facility, or the Bridge Loan Facilities. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Credit Facilities and Other Capital Resources—R6.0 billion Bridge Loan Facilities”. Under the Bridge Loan Facilities, Sibanye Gold is not entitled to distribute any dividends, shares or other assets to its shareholders without the consent of the majority lenders under the Bridge Loan Facilities, except for a final dividend in respect of the fiscal year ending December 2013, which will be limited to 25% of normalized earnings and will be payable only if Sibanye Gold gross debt will not be more than R4 billion after such dividend payment. See “Additional Information—Material Contracts—Bridge Loan Facilities”. Given these factors (including the capital and investment needs of the business) and the Board’s discretion to declare a dividend (including the amount and timing thereof) cash dividends or other similar payments may not be paid in the future. It should be noted that a 15% withholding tax on dividends declared by South African resident companies to non-resident shareholders or non-resident ADR holders was introduced with effect from April 1, 2012. See “Additional Information—Taxation—Certain South African Tax Considerations—Withholding Tax on Dividends” and “Financial Information—Dividend Policy and Dividend Distribution”. Sibanye Gold’s non-South African shareholders face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations since any dividends will be paid in Rand. Dividends or distributions with respect to Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares have historically been paid in Rand and all dividends have historically been paid directly to Gold Fields. The U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of future dividends or distributions with respect to Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares, if any, will be adversely affected by potential future reductions in the value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. In the future, it is possible that there will be changes in South African Exchange Control Regulations, such that dividends paid out of trading profits will not be freely transferable outside South Africa to shareholders who are not residents of the CMA. See “Additional Information—South African Exchange Control Limitations Affecting Security Holders”. Sibanye Gold’s ordinary shares are subject to dilution upon the exercise of Sibanye Gold’s outstanding share options or issues of shares by the Board in compliance with BEE legislation. As of December 31, 2012, Sibanye Gold had an aggregate of 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares authorized to be issued and, as of that date, an aggregate of 1,000 ordinary shares were issued and outstanding. As of April 19, 2013, Sibanye Gold had an aggregate of 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares authorized to be issued and had an aggregate of 732,085,031 issued ordinary shares. Currently, the aggregate number of issued ordinary share capital reserved for issuance under the Sibanye Gold 2013 Share Plan, or 2013 Share Plan, is limited to 35,309,563 shares, or approximately 5% of the number of current issued shares. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Directors and Executive Officers—The Sibanye Gold 2013 Share Plan”. On March 1, 2013, 29,218,718 shares were issued under the 2013 Share Plan to Sibanye Gold employees entitled to shares under the Gold Fields 2012 Share Plan, of which they were a part until the Spin-off. In order to satisfy future annual allocations of restricted shares and performance shares, Sibanye Gold intends to seek shareholder approval to amend the 2013 Share Plan to increase the aggregate allowed number of issued ordinary share capital reserved for issuance under the 2013 Share Plan to 70,619,126 shares, or approximately 10% of the number of current issued shares. Shareholders’ equity interests in Sibanye Gold will be diluted to the extent of future exercises or settlements of these rights and any additional rights. Sibanye Gold shares are also subject to dilution in the event that the Board is required to issue new shares in compliance with BBBEE legislation. 28 Table of Contents 