Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this annual report, the following risks should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects and an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to significantly increase the number of materials in which we can print products fast enough to meet our business plan. Our business plan is heavily dependent upon our ability to steadily increase the number of qualified materials in which our machines can print products, because this will increase our addressable market, both as to customers and products for customers. However, qualifying new materials is a complicated engineering task, and there is no way to predict whether, or when, any given material will be qualified. If we cannot hire sufficient skilled people to work on qualifying new materials for printing, or if we lack the resources necessary to create a steady flow of new materials, we will not be able to meet our business plan goals and a competitor may emerge that is better at qualifying new materials, either of which would have an adverse effect on our business results. Our future success in qualifying new materials for printing may attract more competitors into our markets, some which may be much larger than we are. If we succeed in qualifying a growing number of materials for use in our 3D printing machines, that will increase our addressable market. However, as we create a larger addressable market, our market may become more attractive to other 3D printing companies or large companies that are not 3D printing companies, but which may see an economic opportunity in the markets we have created. Because we are a supplier of 3D printed products to industrial companies, an increase in the number of competitors for our addressable market is likely to adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not be able to adequately increase demand for our products. Our business plan is built around a steady increase in the demand for our products. However, only a relatively small number of our potential customers know of the existence of AM and are familiar with its capabilities, and even fewer understand the potential benefits of using AM to manufacture products. If we do not develop effective strategies to raise awareness among potential customers of the benefits of AM, we may be unable to achieve our planned rate of growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to hire the number of skilled employees that we need to achieve our business plan. For our business to grow in accordance with our business plan, we will need to hire and retain additional employees with the technical competence and engineering skills to operate our machines, improve our technology and processes and expand our technological capability to print using an increasing variety of materials. People with these skills are in short supply and may not be available in sufficient numbers to allow us to meet the goals of our business plan. If we cannot obtain the services of sufficient technically skilled employees, we may not be able to achieve our planned rate of growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. A significant portion of our machine orders are typically received during the third or fourth quarter of the fiscal year as a result of the timing of capital expenditures of our customers. Our machines typically are shipped within the quarter or the next quarter after orders are received. Thus, revenues and operating results for any future period are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. We also typically experience weaker demand for our machines in the first and second quarters. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may occur due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • the degree of market acceptance of our products; • the mix of products that we sell during any period; • our long sales cycle; • generally weaker demand for machines in the first and second quarters; • development of competitive systems by others; • our response to price competition; • delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced machines and products and the generation of sales from those products; • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products and services; • the geographic distribution of our sales; • changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of products; • our level of research and development activities and their associated costs and rates of success; • general economic and industry conditions that affect end-user demand and end-user levels of product design and manufacturing, including the adverse effects of the current economic crisis affecting Europe; • changes in accounting rules and tax laws; and • changes in interest rates that affect returns on our cash balances and short-term investments. Due to the foregoing factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. We may not be able to generate operating profits. Since our inception, we have not generated operating profits. In the event that we are unable to execute on our business plan, we may be unable to generate profits in the future. We may not be able to introduce new machines and related industrial materials acceptable to the market or to improve the technology and industrial materials used in our current machines. Our revenues are derived from the sale of machines for, and products manufactured using, AM. Our market is subject to innovation and technological change. A variety of technologies have the capacity to compete against one another in our market, which is, in part, driven by technological advances and end-user requirements and 16 Table of Contents preferences, as well as the emergence of new standards and practices. Our ability to compete in the industrial AM market depends, in large part, on our success in enhancing and developing new machines, in enhancing our current machines, in enhancing and adding to our technology, and in developing and qualifying new industrial materials in which we can print. We believe that to remain competitive we must continuously enhance and expand the functionality and features of our products and technologies. However, we may not be able to: • Enhance our existing products and technologies; • Continue to leverage advances in industrial printhead technology; • Develop new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective end-users, particularly with respect to the physical properties of industrial materials and other consumables; • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; • Develop products that are cost-effective or that otherwise gain market acceptance; and • Adequately protect our intellectual property as we develop new products and technologies. If the market does not develop as we expect, our revenues may stagnate or decline. The marketplace for industrial manufacturing is dominated by conventional manufacturing methods that do not involve AM technology. If AM technology does not gain market acceptance as an alternative for industrial manufacturing, or if the marketplace adopts AM based on a technology other than our technology, we may not be able to increase or sustain the level of sales of our products and machines and our results of operations would be adversely affected as a result. Loss of key management or sales or customer service personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other key personnel. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of management individuals if we are to realize our goal of continued expansion and growth. While we have not previously experienced significant problems attracting and retaining members of our management team and other key personnel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to retain these individuals, and the loss of any or all of these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not carry key-man insurance on any member of management. Our international operations pose currency risks, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may be affected by volatility in currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively manage our currency transaction and translation risks. In general, we conduct our business, earn revenue and incur costs in the local currency of the countries in which we operate. As a result, our international operations present risks from currency exchange rate fluctuations. The financial condition and results of operations of each of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our combined consolidated financial statements. We do not manage our foreign currency exposure in a manner that would eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. Therefore, changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our foreign assets and liabilities, as well as our revenues, cost of goods sold, and operating margins, and could result in exchange losses in any given reporting period. In the future, we may not benefit from favorable exchange rate translation effects, and unfavorable exchange rate translation effects may harm our operating results. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur 17 Table of Contents currency transaction risks whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sale transaction using a different currency from the currency in which we receive revenues. In such cases we may suffer an exchange loss because we do not currently engage in currency swaps or other currency hedging strategies to address this risk. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we can give no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. One of our principal stockholders will be able to exert substantial influence. S. Kent Rockwell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 37.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock and may have effective control over the election of our Board of Directors and the direction of our affairs. As a result, he could exert considerable influence over the outcome of any corporate matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any transaction that might cause a change in control, such as a merger or acquisition. Any stockholders in favor of a matter that is opposed by Mr. Rockwell would have to obtain a significant number of votes to overrule the votes of Mr. Rockwell. We may need to raise additional capital from time to time if we are going to meet our growth strategy and may be unable to do so on attractive terms. Expanding our business to meet the growth strategy may require additional investments of capital from time to time, and our existing sources of cash and any funds generated from operations may not provide us with sufficient capital. For various reasons, including any current noncompliance with existing or future lending arrangements, additional financing may not be available when needed, or may not be available on terms favorable to us. If we fail to obtain adequate capital on a timely basis or if capital cannot be obtained at reasonable costs, we will not be able to achieve our planned rate of growth, which will adversely affect our results of operations. We are highly dependent upon sales to certain industries. For 2012, revenues of machines and products have been concentrated to companies in the aerospace (20%), automotive (24%), heavy equipment (26%) and energy/oil/gas (13%) industries and those industries’ respective suppliers. To the extent any of these industries experience a downturn, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, if any of these industries or their respective suppliers or other providers of manufacturing services develop new technologies or alternatives to manufacture the products that are currently manufactured using our machines, it may adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on a single supplier of printheads. We currently rely on a single source to supply the printheads used by our machines. While we believe that there are other suppliers of printheads upon which we could rely, we could experience delays and interruptions if our supply is interrupted that might temporarily impact the financial performance of our business. We may not be able to manage the expansion of our operations effectively in order to achieve our projected levels of growth. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent periods, and our business plan calls for further expansion over the next several years. We anticipate that further development of our infrastructure and an increase in the number of our employees will be required to achieve our planned broadening of our product offerings and client base, improvements in our machines and materials used in our machines, and our planned international growth. In particular, we must increase our marketing and services staff to support new marketing 18 Table of Contents and service activities and to meet the needs of both new and existing customers. Our future success will depend in part upon the ability of our management to manage our growth effectively. If our management is unsuccessful in meeting these challenges, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our planned expansion of our international sales is subject to various risks, and failure to manage these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business globally. Our sales outside of the Americas were 72.8%, 70.0% and 70.7% of our total sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. One of our growth strategies is to pursue opportunities for our business in several areas of the world outside of the United States, any or all of which could be adversely affected by the risks set forth below. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks associated with the political, regulatory and economic conditions of the countries in which we operate, such as: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • potentially longer sales and payment cycles; • potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • laws and business practices favoring local competition; • costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; • compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; • tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; and • becoming subject to the laws, regulations and court systems of many jurisdictions. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect sales of our products to global customers or harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Global economic, political and social conditions have adversely impacted our sales and may continue to do so. The uncertain direction and relative strength of the global economy, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors all affect spending behavior of potential end-users of our products. The prospects for economic growth in the United States and other countries remain uncertain and may cause end-users to further delay or reduce technology purchases. In particular, a substantial portion of our sales are made to customers in countries in Europe, which is experiencing a significant economic crisis. If global economic conditions remain volatile for a prolonged period or if European economies experience further disruptions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening of credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. These conditions may make it more difficult for our end-users to obtain financing. 19 Table of Contents Due to our plan to increase our global business activities, we may be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions in which we currently or may in the future operate, or various international trade and export laws. Our business plan envisions that we will conduct increasing amounts of business outside of the United States, which will create various domestic and foreign regulatory challenges. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the “FCPA”), and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have policies and controls in place designed to ensure internal and external compliance with these and other anti-bribery laws. To ensure compliance, our anti-bribery policy and training on a global basis provides our employees with procedures, guidelines and information about anti-bribery obligations and compliance. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with anti-bribery laws. We also have procedures and controls in place designed to ensure internal and external compliance. However, such anti-bribery policy, training, internal controls, and procedures will not always protect us from reckless, criminal or unintentional acts committed by our employees, agents or other persons associated with us. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on our information technology, or “IT,” systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems allow us to efficiently purchase products from our suppliers, provide procurement and logistic services, ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide superior service to our customers. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss, including as a result of natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunication services, operator negligence, loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. Any such disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. We could be subject to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty and other claims involving allegedly defective products that we supply. The products we supply are sometimes used in potentially hazardous applications, such as the assembled parts of an aircraft or automobile, that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, loss of production, punitive damages, and consequential damages. While we have not experienced any such claims to date, actual or claimed defects in the products we supply could result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. Any such lawsuit, regardless of merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and efforts, and damage to our reputation, and could cause us to fail to retain or attract customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various product and non-product related claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies arising out of our commercial operations. We maintain insurance to cover our potential exposure for most claims and losses. However, our insurance coverage is subject to various exclusions, self-retentions and deductibles, may be inadequate or 20 Table of Contents unavailable to protect us fully, and may be cancelled or otherwise terminated by the insurer. Furthermore, we face the following additional risks under our insurance coverage: • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that are not covered under our insurance policies, such as environmental contamination or terrorist attacks, and that exceed any amounts what we may have reserved for such liabilities; • the amount of any liabilities that we may face may exceed our policy limits and any amounts we may have reserved for such liabilities; and • we may incur losses resulting from interruption of our business that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Even a partially uninsured claim of significant size, if successful, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. However, even if we successfully defend ourselves against any such claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. If any of our manufacturing facilities or PSCs are disrupted, sales of our products may be disrupted, which could result in loss of revenues and an increase in unforeseen costs. We manufacture our machines at our facilities in Augsburg, Germany and North Huntingdon, Pennsylvania. Our PSCs are located in North Huntingdon, Pennsylvania; Houston, Texas; Troy, Michigan; Augsburg, Germany; and Kanagawa, Japan. If the operations of these facilities are materially disrupted, we would be unable to fulfill customer orders for the period of the disruption, we would not be able to recognize revenue on orders, and we might need to modify our standard sales terms to secure the commitment of new customers during the period of the disruption and perhaps longer. Depending on the cause of the disruption, we could incur significant costs to remedy the disruption and resume product shipments. Such a disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work, including Germany and Japan, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. If we cannot demonstrate that our legally protectable interests will be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants and our ability to remain competitive may be diminished. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our trade secrets and intellectual property. While some of our technology is licensed under patents belonging to others or is covered by process patents which are owned or applied for by us, much of our key technology is not protected by patents. Since we cannot legally prevent one or more other companies from developing similar or identical technology to our unpatented technology, it is likely that, over time, one or more other companies may be able to replicate our technology, thereby reducing our technological advantages. If we do not protect our technology or are unable to develop new 21 Table of Contents technology that can be protected by patents or as trade secrets, we may face increased competition from other companies, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We enjoy license rights and exclusivity of certain patents and intellectual property and cannot adequately estimate the effects of their expiration upon the entrance or advancement of competitors into the AM industrial market. We have exclusive license and non-exclusive license rights to certain patents that we utilize in the industrial market. Some of these patents expired in November 2012. We cannot adequately estimate the effect that the expiration of these patents will have upon the entrance or advancement of other AM manufacturers into the industrial market. See “Item 1. Business — Intellectual Property” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to obtain patent protection or otherwise adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes globally. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use, or disclose our technologies and processes. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future patents or other intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or will otherwise provide us with meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents corresponding to our U.S. or foreign patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents and other intellectual property protections do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. We may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and processes or take appropriate steps to prevent such use. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Any of the foregoing events would lead to increased competition and lower revenue or gross profits, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to alleged infringement claims. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from individuals, vendors, and other companies who have acquired or developed patents in the field of AM for purposes of developing competing products or for the sole purpose of asserting claims against us. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may prohibit or otherwise impair our ability to commercialize new or existing products. If we are unable to effectively defend our technologies and processes, our market share, sales and profitability could suffer, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our employees and patents are subject to German law. Many of our employees work in Germany and are subject to German employment law. Ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by such employees and consultants are subject to the provisions of the German Act on Employees’ Inventions (Gesetz über Arbeitnehmererfindungen), which regulates the ownership of, and compensation for, inventions made by employees. We face the risk that disputes can occur between us and our employees or ex-employees pertaining to alleged non-adherence to the provisions of this act that may be costly to defend and take up our management’s time and efforts whether we prevail or fail in such dispute. In addition, under the German Act on Employees’ Inventions, certain employees retained rights to patents they invented or co-invented prior to 2009. Although most of these employees have subsequently assigned their interest in these patents to us, there is a risk that the compensation we provided to them may be deemed to be insufficient in the 22 Table of Contents future and we may be required under German law to increase the compensation due to such employee for the use of their patent. In those cases where employees have not assigned their interests to us, we may need to pay compensation for the use of those patents. If we are required to pay additional compensation or face other disputes under the German Act on Employees’ Inventions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock We have broad discretion as to the use of the net proceeds from our public offering and may not use them effectively. We cannot specify with certainty the particular uses to which we will put the net proceeds from our public offering. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds, and we may use these proceeds in ways with which you may disagree or for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of the offering. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from this offering in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock that will prevail in the market after the IPO may fluctuate and may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • the mix of products that we sell, and related services that we provide, during any period; • delays between our expenditures to develop and market new products and the generation of sales from those products; • changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • changes in our expenditures to promote our products and services; • changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of systems; • success or failure of research and development projects of us or our competitors; • announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors; • the general tendency towards volatility in the market prices of shares of companies that rely on technology and innovation; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines; • changes or perceived changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or earnings from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; and • general economic trends and other external factors. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our shares, the price of our shares could decline. The trading market for our shares will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have control over these analysts, and we do not have commitments 23 Table of Contents from them to write research reports about us. The price of our shares could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrades our shares, issues other unfavorable commentary, or ceases publishing reports about us or our business. Future sales of our shares could reduce the market price of our shares. The price of our shares could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly by our directors, their affiliates or our executive officers, or when there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell our shares could also depress the market price of our shares. Many of our existing stockholders are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters that restrict their ability to transfer their shares for at least 180 days after the date of the IPO. Consequently, upon expiration of the lock-up agreements, approximately 7,072,105 shares held by our existing stockholders or directors will be eligible for sale in the public market. The market price of our shares may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse and these stockholders are able to sell their shares into the market. If this occurs or continues it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to our stockholders. We may need or desire to raise substantial additional capital in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others: • Our degree of success in capturing a larger portion of the industrial products production market; • The costs of establishing or acquiring sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for our products; • The costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • The extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies and other strategic relationships; and • The costs of financing unanticipated working capital requirements and responding to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, we will reduce the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders, and the holders of those newly-issued equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those possessed by our then-existing stockholders. Additionally, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we will incur accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and the NASDAQ Marketing Rules and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, introduce new costs such as investor relations, stock exchange listing fees and 24 Table of Contents stockholder reporting, and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, less extensive disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements to hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved and an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We may remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. See “Explanatory Note — Implications of Being an Emerging Growth Company” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have never paid cash dividends on our common equity interests, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, if our share price does not appreciate, our investors may not gain and could potentially lose on their investment in our shares. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common interests, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends on our share capital, after this offering and in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our shares will be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. As an emerging growth company, we intend to follow certain permitted corporate governance practices instead of the otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors in a non-emerging growth company. As an emerging growth company, we will be permitted, and intend to follow, certain permitted corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required by the SEC and under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. Following our emerging growth company governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market applicable to non-emerging growth company issuers. As an emerging growth company, we may delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards, which may make our stock less attractive and our trading price more volatile. Pursuant to the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to take advantage of an extended transition period for any new or revised accounting standards that may be issued by the Financial 25 Table of Contents Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or the SEC, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can delay adoption of the standard until it applies to private companies. This may make a comparison of our financial statements with any other public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult, as different or revised standards may be used. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile and could decline. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as they apply to an emerging growth company that is listed on an exchange for the first time, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires a company that is subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013. We will need to prepare for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our management’s report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404(a) is complicated and time-consuming. Furthermore, as our business continues to grow internationally, our internal controls will become more complex and will require significantly more resources and attention to ensure that our internal controls remain effective overall. We have been made aware of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting by our independent registered public accounting firm. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures — Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.” We have taken steps to remediate these material weaknesses and plan to take further steps in the future. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Assuming that we continue to qualify as an emerging growth company for the next five years, we will be required to comply with Section 404(b), which requires an independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on management’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting, at the time we file our annual report for 2018 with the SEC. Over the course of testing our internal controls, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, which may not be remedied in a timely manner to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our share price may suffer. Provisions in our charter documents or Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain, and Delaware corporate law contains, provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions will apply even if some of our stockholders consider the offer to be beneficial or favorable. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 