Item 1A Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Furthermore, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if any of our underlying assumptions are incorrect, our actual results may differ significantly from the results that we express in or imply by any of our forward-looking statements. These and other risks are detailed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the documents that we incorporate by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect future events or circumstances. We qualify any and all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary factors. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading specialty contractor operating mainly throughout the United States and across a range of industries. Our core activities are the building, installation, maintenance and upgrade of utility and communications infrastructure, including but not limited to, electrical utility transmission and distribution, wind farm, other renewable energy and natural gas infrastructure, wireless, wireline and satellite communications and water and sewer systems. Our primary customers are in the following industries: utilities (including wind farms and other renewable energy, natural gas gathering systems and pipeline infrastructure), communications (including telephony, satellite television and cable television) and government (including water and sewer, utilities and communications work on military bases). We, or our predecessor companies, have been in business for over 70 years. We offer our services primarily under the MasTec service mark and operate through a network of approximately 200 locations and approximately 8,400 employees as of December 31, 2008. We have consistently ranked among the top specialty contractors by Engineering News-Record over the past five years. We serve a diversified domestic customer base including DIRECTV®, AT&T, Verizon, Tetra Tech, Energy Transfer Company, EMBARQ, Progress Energy, Qwest and XTO Energy. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 71.2% and 76.7%, respectively, of our revenues were from our ten largest customers. We have longstanding relationships with many customers and often provide services under multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements. We have continued our diversification and expansion strategy through several recent acquisitions which have expanded our service offerings to customers. During 2007 and 2008, we acquired the remaining ownership interest in GlobeTec Construction, LLC. GlobeTec is involved in the construction and maintenance of water and sewer pipelines and projects. In October 2007, we acquired Three Phase Line Construction, Inc., which is involved in the construction and maintenance of transmission and distribution utility systems, substation and storm restoration in several northern states and has a largely unionized workforce which is required for some projects. In December 2007, we acquired certain assets of Power Partners, LLC, an electrical utility contractor specializing in wind farm electrical system design and construction. In May 2008, we acquired Pumpco, Inc., a mid-stream natural gas pipeline construction company. In July 2008, we acquired certain assets of Nsoro, LLC, which specializes in wireless network design, construction, upgrade and maintenance. Finally, in December 2008, we acquired Wanzek Construction, Inc., a construction company focusing on wind farm, heavy civil and industrial and infrastructure construction. Industry Trends Our industry is composed of national, regional and local companies that provide outsourced infrastructure services to customers in the utilities and communications industries as well as to government customers. We believe the following industry trends impact demand for our services: Stimulus Act. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the Stimulus Act, signed on February 17, 2009, should have a positive impact on our customer spending in a number of important areas, plus offer additional incentives that should benefit our business. The Stimulus Act provides for federal tax incentives applicable to the wind energy industry including the extension of the production tax credit to wind projects placed into service before 2013, and a new investment tax credit equal to 30% of the cost of certain qualifying assets that may be elected in lieu of the production tax credit. The production tax credit provides the owner of a U.S. wind facility (consisting of the pad, tower and turbine) with a ten-year credit against its federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity. The Stimulus Act also includes a new U.S. Treasury grant program which allows taxpayers that elect to claim the 30% investment tax credit to receive grants from the U.S. Treasury equal to the amount of the investment tax credit in lieu of such credit. The Stimulus Act also extends the 50% bonus depreciation deduction for property placed in service in 2009. Historically, these 5 Table of Contents incentives have increased the construction activity in this sector and are expected to do so in the future. The Stimulus Act also contains several provisions aimed at improving the U.S.’s electrical transmission system in part to facilitate the transfer of renewable energy from rural areas to high demand areas, including $6 billion in funds for renewable energy and transmission loan guarantees, which are expected to facilitate more than $60 billion in loans for these projects. The Stimulus Act also provides for $7.2 billion in funds for the development of broadband facilities throughout the United States. Renewable Energy Projects. The desire to decrease the country’s dependence on foreign oil imports and the awareness of the potential effect of global warming have created demand for more domestic, environmentally sensitive electrical power production such as wind and solar collection farms. According to the American Wind Energy Association, as of December 31, 2008, the United States had approximately 25,200 megawatts of installed wind farm generating capacity with approximately 4,300 megawatts currently under construction. In addition, as of August 2008, 26 states in the United States and the District of Columbia have already adopted renewable portfolio standards or goals, which standards require or target that an average of 19% of electricity be produced from renewable sources, like wind power. As a result of these trends, Emerging Energy Research, or EER, forecasted that more than $66 billion will be invested in additional wind energy capacity in the United States through 2013. The Stimulus Act, which calls for expansion of domestic renewable energy sources through tax incentives and loan guarantees, should also provide our wind farm business with the potential for sustained growth. Wind power generation is only feasible where adequate average wind speed and consistency are present. The principal onshore wind resource in the United States is located in the central plains area of the country, roughly from the Texas panhandle to the Canadian border. This wind corridor is a relatively remote area where population density and industrial energy demand are relatively low. As a result, there are often few traditionally fueled generation facilities in these areas and extensive collection and transmission projects are also necessary to connect these renewable energy generation projects to the electrical grid. We believe that demand for new domestic sources of clean power generation and the related substations and transmission lines necessary to connect them to the electrical grid will provide significant growth prospects for the foreseeable future. The new generation of wind turbines can produce electrical power at competitive rates. Currently, less than 2% of the United States’ electrical needs are met by wind power generation. A July 2008 report by the U.S. Department of Energy, however, presents a roadmap for increasing wind power generation to 20% of demand by 2030, which would require hundreds of billions of dollars in new wind farm investment and transmission lines. Inadequacy of Existing Electric Power Transmission and Distribution Networks. The United States’ electric transmission and distribution infrastructure requires significant ongoing maintenance, upgrades and extensions to manage power line congestion and avoid delivery failures. According to a November 2008 report published by the Edison Electric Institute, or EEI, the projected investment in new transmission systems from 2009 to 2013 is $27 billion and $298 billion for the period 2010 to 2030. Additionally, new renewable energy generation projects, including wind and solar collection farms, are typically located in remote areas, consequently significant investment in new transmission lines will be required to connect this power to the electrical grid and to transport this power to more populated or industrial areas with higher demand. For example, in July 2008, the Texas Public Utility Commission approved the investment of approximately $4.9 billion for the construction of electric transmission lines to carry power generated by new wind farms in remote western and northern parts of state to major population and industrial centers in Texas. While the electrical grid reliability continues to deteriorate, demand for electricity is expected to continue to grow. According to the 2008 Annual Energy Outlook published by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Information Administration, or EIA, the population of the United States has increased by about 20% since 1990, with energy consumption increasing by a comparable 18%. Additionally, the same EIA report projects that total U.S. electricity sales from producers to consumers will increase by 41% from 3,660 billion kilowatt-hours in 2005 to 5,168 billion kilowatt-hours in 2030. North American Electric Reliability Corporation, or NERC, the organization of U.S. electric grid operators, reports in its 2007 Long-Term Reliability Assessment that peak demand for electricity in the U.S., which typically occurs in the summer, is forecast to 6 Table of Contents increase by 135,000 megawatts or 17.7% over the next ten years. The Stimulus Act allocates $11 billion in funds for modernization and expansion of the nation’s electrical grid. NERC projects the number of transmission miles will increase by 8.8% or 14,500 circuit miles in the U.S. over the next ten years. We believe spending levels will continue to increase as utilities work to address infrastructure maintenance requirements, as well as the future reliability standards required by the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or the Energy Act. Increased Production and Demand for Natural Gas. Natural gas is one of the cleanest burning hydrocarbon fuels and is in demand due to its relative cost advantage over other fossil fuel sources. The level of natural gas pipeline construction activity in the United States is expected to increase substantially through 2010. According to a report published in July 2008 by EIA, approximately 200 gas pipeline projects, estimated to cost approximately $28 billion, are already being planned or have been approved by U.S. regulatory authorities. In addition, the development of a number of proposed new liquefied natural gas import facilities along the coastline of the United States, as well as some in Canada and Mexico, if realized, likely will continue to spark new pipeline proposals. Demand for Increased Wireless and Wired Voice, Video and Data Services. Demand for faster and more robust voice, video and data services has increased significantly with the proliferation of the Internet, broadband, video and music download services, high definition television and other advanced video services. To serve this developing market and the ever-increasing need for more bandwidth, voice, video and data for fixed and mobile devices, service providers are upgrading the performance of their wired and wireless networks or deploying new competing networks using new technologies such as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax. Investment is facilitated by declining equipment costs and expanded capabilities of wireline and wireless network equipment. At the same time, major regional and rural telecommunication companies are upgrading their networks from copper line to fiber optic line in order to enhance their ability to provide customers with bundled services that include video, voice and data. Similar dynamics of providers seeking to improve their offerings are prevalent in the cable and satellite markets as well. The Stimulus Act allocates $7.2 billion for the development of broadband facilities throughout the U.S. and the expansion of broadband access into areas that are currently not served by high-speed data networks. Competitive Strengths Our competitive strengths include: Diverse Customer Relationships. We serve a diversified customer industry base. Our customers include some of the largest contractors, communications, utility and wind farm companies in the United States, including DIRECTV®, Verizon, AT&T, Energy Transfer Company, Tetra-Tech, M. A. Mortensen, EMBARQ, Qwest, XTO Energy and Progress Energy. Additionally, as a result of the Wanzek acquisition, we now serve major wind energy customers such as FPL Energy, Iberdrola and MidAmerican. We provide services to many of our significant customers under multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements. Furthermore, we believe that since acquiring Wanzek, no single customer will account for greater than 30% of our revenue. National Footprint. We, or our predecessor companies, have been in business for over 70 years and we are one of the largest companies in our industry. Through our network of over 200 locations and 8,400 employees across the United States, as of December 31, 2008, we offer consistent, comprehensive infrastructure services to our customers nationwide. We believe our experience, technical expertise, geographic reach and size are important to our customers. Ability to Respond Quickly and Effectively. The skills required to serve our end markets are similar, which allows us to utilize qualified personnel across multiple industries. We are able to respond quickly and effectively to industry changes and major weather events by allocating our employees, fleet and other assets as and where they are needed, enabling us to provide cost effective and timely services for our customers. 7 Table of Contents Reputation for Reliable Customer Service and Technical Expertise. We believe that over the years we have established a reputation for quality customer service and technical expertise. We also believe our reputation for technical expertise gives us an advantage in competing for new work from both our existing and potential customers. Additionally, the technical expertise gained through recent acquisitions broadens our exposure in areas of wind power and renewable energy, wireless technology and pipeline infrastructure. Experienced Management Team. Our management team, which includes our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, group presidents and financial officers, plays a significant role in establishing and maintaining long-term relationships with our customers, supporting the growth of our business and managing the financial aspects of our operations. Our chief executive officer, chief operating officer and business unit presidents average 20 plus years of industry experience and have a deep understanding of our customers and their requirements. Generally, key managers and founders of our recently acquired companies continue to work for us under long-term employment agreements or services agreements and, in some cases, earn-out arrangements. Strategy The key elements of our business strategy are as follows: Focus on Growth Opportunities. We believe that the end markets that we focus on offer several compelling growth opportunities. We expect a continuation of the trends for increased spending by key customers in many industries in which we provide services. We expect wind farm development and maintenance, electrical transmission and distribution grid upgrades and expansions, and wireless infrastructure expansion to be areas of high investment and opportunity over the next few years. We intend to use our national presence, technical expertise, customer relationships and full range of services to capitalize on these trends to grow our business. Operational Excellence. We intend to continue improving our operating margins and cash flows by focusing on our more profitable services and on projects that have higher margins, while improving our working capital management. We intend to improve our operating effectiveness by, in some cases, allocating our resources across multiple customers and projects which will continue to increase our utilization rates. Furthermore, we intend to continue our actions and programs we have instituted to improve our operating efficiencies and working capital management, such as hiring additional experienced operating and financial professionals, requiring increased accountability throughout our organization, expanding the use of our Oracle management information systems, managing customer contract bidding procedures more effectively and increasing individual project profitability. Maintain Conservative Capital Structure. We have increased our financial resources in recent years with the receipt of the net proceeds from the public offering of our common stock in 2006, the offering of our senior notes in 2007 and the expansion of our credit facility in 2008. Further, during the fourth quarter of 2008, both Standards & Poors and Moody’s reaffirmed our credit ratings. We intend to maintain our conservative capital structure. Leverage Core Expertise Through Acquisitions, Strategic Alliances and Divestitures. We intend to continue pursuing selected acquisitions and strategic alliances that allow us to expand our operations into targeted geographic areas or allow us to expand our service offerings in related fields. Our strategy will include timely and efficient integration to best fit into our internal control environment. We may also consider sales or divestitures of portions of our assets, operations, projects, real estate or other properties in order to efficiently deploy our capital. 8 Table of Contents Services Our core services are building, installing, maintaining and upgrading infrastructure for our communications, utility and government customers. We provide each of these customers with similar services that include: Build. We build wind farms, underground and overhead distribution systems, such as trenches, conduits, cable, power lines and pipelines, which provide wireless and wireline communications, electrical power generation and delivery, and natural gas transport. Install. We install buried and aerial fiber optic cables, coaxial cables, copper lines, electrical and other energy distribution systems, transmission systems and satellite dishes in a variety of environments for our customers. In connection with our installation work, we deploy and manage network connections that involve our customers’ hardware, software and network equipment. Maintain and Upgrade. We offer 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week and 365-days-a-year maintenance and upgrade support to our customers. Our comprehensive service offerings include the regular maintenance of our customers’ distribution facilities and networks as well as emergency services for accidents or storm damage. Our upgrade work ranges from routine replacements and upgrades to major network overhauls. Customers We provide building, installation, maintenance and upgrade services to our customers, which are companies in the communications and utilities industries, as well as government customers. We have longstanding relationships with many customers, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from projects performed under service agreements. We also provide services under master service agreements which are generally multi-year agreements. Certain of our master service agreements are exclusive up to a specified dollar amount per work order for each defined geographic area. Work performed under master service and other agreements is generated by work orders, each of which is performed for a fixed fee. The majority of these services are of a maintenance nature and, to a lesser extent, upgrade services. These master service agreements and other service agreements are frequently awarded on a competitive bid basis, although customers may negotiate contract extensions beyond their original terms without re-bidding. Our master service agreements and other service agreements have various terms, depending upon the nature of the services provided and are typically subject to termination on short notice. The remainder of our work is generated pursuant to contracts for specific projects that may require the construction and installation of specified units within an infrastructure system or an entire infrastructure system. Customers are billed with varying frequency: weekly, monthly or upon attaining specific milestones. Such contracts generally include retainage provisions under which 2% to 15% of the contract price is withheld from us until the work has been completed and accepted by the customer. We believe that our industry experience, technical expertise and customer service are important to our being retained by large utility and communications companies and governments. The relationships developed between these customers and our senior management and project management teams are also important to our being retained. Backlog Our 18-month backlog was approximately $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2008 and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2007. We expect to realize approximately 74% of our 2008 backlog in 2009. Approximately 83% of our backlog at December 31, 2008 was comprised of services to be performed under existing master service agreements and long term contracts. The balance is our estimate of work to be completed on other service agreements. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits.” 9 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We market our services individually and in combination with other companies to provide what we believe is the most efficient and effective solution to meet our customers’ demands, which increasingly require resources from multiple disciplines. Through our unified MasTec® brand and an integrated organizational structure designed to permit rapid deployment of labor, equipment and materials, we are able to quickly and efficiently allocate resources to meet customer needs. We have developed a marketing plan emphasizing the MasTec® registered service mark and the tradenames of certain acquired companies and an integrated service offering to position ourselves as a provider of a full range of service solutions, providing services ranging from basic installation to sophisticated engineering, design and integration. We believe our long-standing relationships with our customers and reputation for reliability and efficiency facilitate our recurring business. Our marketing efforts are principally carried out by the management of our project groups in coordination with our corporate marketing organization. Our management team has many years of industry experience, both at the service provider level and in some cases with the customers we serve. Our project group managers market directly to existing and potential customers for new contracts and also market our company to be placed on lists of vendors invited to submit proposals for service agreements and individual projects. Our executive management supplements these efforts at the national level. Safety and Insurance/Risk Management We strive to instill safe work habits in our employees. We require our employees to participate in internal training and service programs relevant to their employment and to complete any training programs required by law. We evaluate employees in part based upon their safety records and the safety records of the employees they supervise. We have established a company-wide safety program to share best practices and to monitor and improve compliance with safety procedures and regulations. Our business involves heavy equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. While we are committed to operating safely and prudently, we are subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries that occur in connection with our work. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our business is subject to hazards that could result in substantial liabilities and weaken our financial condition.” We presently maintain insurance policies subject to per claim deductibles of $1 million for our workers’ compensation policy, $2 million for our general liability policy and $2 million for our automobile liability policy. We have excess umbrella coverage of up to $100 million per claim and in the aggregate. We also maintain an insurance policy with respect to employee group health claims subject to per claim deductibles of $350,000 after satisfying an annual deductible of $100,000. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We are self-insured against many potential liabilities.” We are required to periodically post letters of credit and provide cash collateral to our insurance carriers related to our insurance programs. Total outstanding letters of credit amounted to $82.4 million and cash collateral posted amounted to $3.3 million at December 31, 2008. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Insurance Reserves.” Suppliers, Materials and Working Capital Under many of our contracts, our customers supply the necessary materials and supplies and we are responsible for installation, but not for material costs or material warranties. Under certain of our contracts we acquire materials and supplies for our own account from third-party providers. We are not dependent on any one supplier for materials or supplies and have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of materials and supplies. We utilize independent contractors to assist on projects and to help us manage work flow. Our independent contractors are typically sole proprietorships or small business entities that provide their own vehicles, tools and insurance coverage. We are not dependent on any single independent contractor. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services.” 10 Table of Contents We need working capital to support seasonal variations in our business, primarily due to the impact of weather conditions on external construction and maintenance work, including storm restoration work, and the corresponding spending by our customers on their annual capital expenditure budgets. Our business is typically slower in the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year and stronger in the second and third quarters. We generally experience seasonal working capital needs from approximately April through September to support growth in unbilled revenue and accounts receivable, and to a lesser extent, inventory. Our billing terms are generally net 30 to 60 days, although some contracts allow our customers to retain a portion (from 2% to 15%) of the contract amount until the contract is completed to their satisfaction. We maintain inventory to meet the material requirements of some of our contracts. Some of our customers pay us in advance for a portion of the materials we purchase for their projects, or allow us to pre-bill them for materials purchases up to a specified amount. Competition Our industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. We often compete with a number of companies in markets where we operate, ranging from small local independent companies to large national firms. The national or large regional firms that compete with us include Quanta Services, Inc., Pike Electric, Inc., M.A. Mortenson Company, D.H. Blattner & Sons, Inc., and Dycom Industries, Inc. Relatively few significant barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. Some of our customers employ personnel to perform infrastructure services of the type we provide. We compete based upon our industry experience, technical expertise, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and customer service. While we believe our customers consider a number of factors when selecting a service provider, most of their work is awarded through a bid process. Consequently, price is often a principal factor in determining which service provider is selected. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our industry is highly competitive which may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.” Regulation We are subject to state and federal laws that apply to businesses generally, including laws and regulations related to labor relations, worker safety and environmental protection. While many of our customers operate in regulated industries (for example, utilities regulated by the public service commission or broadband companies regulated by franchise agreements with various municipalities), we are not generally subject to such regulation and oversight. As a contractor, our operations are subject to various laws, including: • regulations related to vehicle registrations, including those of state and the United States Departments of Transportation; • regulations related to worker safety and health, including those established by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; • contractor licensing requirements; • building and electrical codes; and • permitting and inspection requirements. We are also subject to various environmental laws. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. For example, • Some of the work we perform is in underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In such a case, we may be liable for fines and damages. 11 Table of Contents • We own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. • We sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities.” We believe we have all licenses and permits needed to conduct operations and that we are in compliance with all material applicable regulatory requirements. However, if we fail to comply with any material applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant liabilities. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our failure to comply with regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity.” We offer services and are branded under the MasTec® service mark. We do not have any patents that are material to our business. Financial Information About Geographic Areas As of December 31, 2008, we operate almost exclusively in the United States. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we operated in the United States and Canada. In March 2007, we declared our Canadian operations as discontinued. On April 10, 2007, we sold substantially all of our Canadian operations. Accordingly, our results of operations for all periods presented reflect our Canadian business as discontinued. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 8,400 employees. Only approximately 250 of our employees are represented by a union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We hire employees from a number of sources, including our industry, trade schools and colleges. Our primary sources for employees include promotion from within, team member referrals, print and Internet advertising and direct recruiting. We attract and retain employees by offering technical training opportunities, bonus opportunities, stock ownership, competitive salaries and a comprehensive benefits package. We believe that our focus on training and career development helps us to attract and retain employees. Our employees participate in ongoing educational programs, many of which are internally developed, to enhance their technical and management skills through classroom and field training. We provide opportunities for promotion and mobility within our organization that we also believe helps us to retain our employees. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Recent Developments In December 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Wanzek Construction, Inc., a construction company focusing on wind farm and infrastructure construction for $50 million in cash, 7.5 million shares of MasTec common stock, an 8% convertible note in the principal amount of $55 million due December 2013 with interest payments payable in April, August, and December of each year, commencing in April 2009, the assumption of up to $15 million of Wanzek’s debt and a two-year earn-out equal to 50% of Wanzek’s EBITDA over $40 million per year. Wanzek, headquartered in Fargo, North Dakota, has been in business more than 37 years and manages a team of highly-skilled workers and tradesmen which it deploys throughout the country and which is capable of working under extreme weather conditions. Wanzek currently derives a significant portion of its revenue from wind farm construction and maintains a fleet of heavy equipment, including a number of specialized heavy cranes, a critical 12 Table of Contents component for the successful erection of wind turbine towers. With the acquisition of Wanzek, MasTec will be capable of providing end-to-end construction services to wind farm owners and developers. The Wanzek acquisition complements MasTec’s existing expertise and contracts in the construction of the electrical collection systems, substations and transmission lines necessary to connect energy from wind farms to the energy grid. Wanzek will also bring additional experience and capabilities to MasTec in the construction of natural gas processing plants and compression stations, and other heavy/civil and industrial process construction. Available Information A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on the Internet at our website, www.mastec.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish these reports to, the SEC. Copies of our Board of Directors Governance Principles, Personal Responsibility Code, which applies to all staff and expressly applies to our senior officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and our controller), and the charters for each of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees are also available on the Internet in the Investor Relations section of our website, www.mastec.com, or may be obtained by contacting our Vice President of Investor Relations, by phone at (305) 406-1815 or by email at investor.relations@mastec.com. We intend to provide any amendments or waivers to our Personal Responsibility Code for any of our directors and senior officers on our website within four business days of any such amendment or waiver. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report. Our reports filed with the SEC may be read or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC’s Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Customers’ Industries The current credit crisis and economic downturn could reduce capital expenditures in the industries we serve, which may result in a decrease in demand for our services. The demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. Given the recent financial market turmoil and tightening of credit, our customers may have difficulty in obtaining financing, which may result in cancellations of projects or deferral of projects to a later date. Such cancellations or deferrals could result in decreased demand for our services and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, our customers are affected by economic downturns that decrease the need for their services or the profitability of their services. Slow-downs in real estate, fluctuations in commodity prices and decreased demand by end-customers for higher value services could affect our customers and their capital expenditure plans. Because we have been negatively impacted by previous economic downturns, we constantly monitor our customers’ industries and their relative health compared to the economy as a whole. The recent reduction in new housing starts, for example, could negatively impact our customers who utilize our services to construct their “last mile” of communications infrastructure, as well as other industries we serve, including electric utility transmission and grid connection, water and sewer and natural gas pipeline construction. Additionally, our customers who provide satellite and broadband communications to consumers across the country could be adversely impacted by an economic downturn if new subscriptions and upgrades for new and existing consumers are not ordered at the rate 13 Table of Contents that we and our customers anticipate. During an economic downturn, our customers also may not have the ability or desire to continue to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure at their current levels or may determine to outsource less work. A decrease in any of these projects, new subscriptions and upgrades or any other services we provide could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Many of the industries we serve are subject to consolidation and rapid technological and regulatory change, and our inability or failure to adjust to our customers’ changing needs could reduce demand for our services. We derive, and anticipate that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from customers in the communications and utilities industries. The communications and utilities industries are subject to rapid changes in technology and governmental regulation. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the services we provide. For example, new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for the transmission of voice, video and data, and improvements in existing technology may allow communications providers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Technological advances may also result in lower costs for sources of energy, which may render existing wind energy projects and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Additionally, both the communications and utilities industries have been characterized by a high level of consolidation that may result in the loss of one or more of our customers. Our failure to rapidly adopt and master new technologies as they are developed in any of the industries we serve or the consolidation of one or more of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our industry is highly competitive, which may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we compete with other companies in most of the markets in which we operate, ranging from small independent firms servicing local markets to larger firms servicing regional and national markets. We also face competition from existing or prospective customers that employ in-house personnel to perform some of the same types of services we provide. There are relatively few barriers to entry into the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise and skilled personnel may become one of our competitors. Most of our customers’ work is awarded through a bid process. Consequently, price is often the principal factor in determining which service provider is selected, especially on smaller, less complex projects. Smaller competitors are sometimes able to win bids for these projects based on price alone due to their lower costs and financial return requirements. If we are unsuccessful in bidding on these projects, or if our ability to win such projects requires that we accept lesser margins, then our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers, and the loss of one of these customers or a reduction in their demand for our services could impair our financial performance. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 34.0%, 11.9% and 7.9% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, AT&T and Verizon, and respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 44.1%, 6.8% and 9.1% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, AT&T and Verizon, respectively. In addition, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 71.2%, 76.7%, and 76.4% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Because our business is concentrated among relatively few major customers, our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of these customers or if the amount of business we obtain from them is reduced, which could result in reduced profitability and liquidity. Our profitability and liquidity could decline if certain customers reduce the amounts they pay for our services or if our customers are unable to pay for our services. In the past, we incurred significant losses after a number of customers filed for bankruptcy or experienced financial difficulties following a general economic downturn and certain industry specific factors that worsened the impact of the overall economic downturn on those customers. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 total provisions for bad debts 14 Table of Contents aggregated to $3.5 million, $17.5 million and $10.0 million, respectively, of which $0.9 million, $14.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, resulted from anticipated legal settlements and discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had remaining receivables from customers undergoing bankruptcy reorganization totaling $1.6 million, of which $0.3 million is included in specific reserves for bad debts, with the remaining amounts expected to be recovered through secured and unsecured claims and enforcement of liens or bonds. Most of our contracts do not obligate our customers to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements. Under our multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements, we contract to provide customers with individual project services, through work orders, within defined geographic areas on a fixed fee basis. Under these agreements, our customers have no obligation to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. A significant decline in the projects customers assign us under these service agreements could result in a decline in our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We recorded unrealized losses in 2007 and 2008 to reduce the carrying value of certain auction rate securities we hold, and we may incur additional impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities in future periods. The current overall credit concerns in capital markets may affect our ability to liquidate certain securities that we classify as securities available for sale on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2008, all of our securities available for sale, or $33.7 million in par value of auction rate securities, had insufficient bidders at the scheduled rollover dates. We have recorded an aggregate unrealized loss on these securities of $13.1 million as of December 31, 2008. Our valuation is sensitive to market conditions and management’s judgment and can change significantly based on the assumptions used. Factors that may impact our valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. At this time, we are uncertain whether the liquidity issues associated with these investments will improve, when we will be able to exit these investments at their par value or whether we will incur any additional temporary or other-than-temporary losses as a result of these investments. As a result of this uncertainty, we have classified the $20.6 million fair value of these securities to long-term assets at December 31, 2008. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue is not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice, ranging from immediate cancellation to cancellation upon 180 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide a significant portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: • our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; • we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; or • we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with our services provided under fixed-price contracts which could impair our financial performance. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from master service agreements and other service agreements that are fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services on a per unit or aggregate basis and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. In addition to master or other service agreements we enter into contracts that require installation or construction of specified units within an infrastructure system. Under those agreements, we have also contractually agreed to a price per unit. Profitability will be reduced if the actual costs to complete each unit exceed original estimates. We are also required 15 Table of Contents to immediately recognize the full amount of any estimated costs on these projects if estimated costs to complete the remaining units for the projects exceed the revenue to be earned on such units. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract and higher costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for our contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Certain of our engagements involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such a project depends in large part upon our ability to manage our client relationship and the project itself and to timely deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel. Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we miscalculate the resources or time needed to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time needed to meet contractual milestones. In addition, some of our agreements require that we pay liquidated damages if we do not meet project deadlines; therefore, any delay in the completion of projects could subject us to penalties which could further adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers’ expectations could result in large damage claims against us, and, because of the substantial cost of, and potentially long lead-time necessary to acquire certain of the materials and equipment used in our complex projects, particularly our wind farm projects, damage claims may substantially exceed the amount we can charge for our associated services. We recognize revenue for our installation/construction fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method, therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability. We recognize revenue on long-term installation/construction fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period in which such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation of actual results from estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability which could negatively impact our liquidity. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred approximately $0.7 million, $0.3 million and $6.8 million, respectively, of losses on percentage-of-completion contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2006, $6.5 million was included in loss from discontinued operations. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. Approximately 83% of our 18-month backlog at December 31, 2008 was composed of master service agreements and other service agreements, none of which require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short notice. The balance of our backlog is our estimate of work to be completed on long-term installation/construction fixed price agreements. These backlog amounts are based on our estimates and therefore may not result in actual receipt of revenue in the originally anticipated period, or at all. In addition, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. If our backlog fails to materialize, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity would be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal and is affected by adverse weather conditions and the spending patterns of our customers, exposing us to variable quarterly results. The budgetary years of many of our specialty infrastructure services customers end December 31. As a result, some of our customers reduce their expenditures and work order requests towards the end of the year. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, also affect our ability to perform outdoor services in certain regions of the United States. As a result, we experience reduced revenue in the first quarter of each calendar year. Natural catastrophes such as hurricanes in the United States could also have a negative impact on the economy overall and on our ability to perform outdoor services in affected regions or utilize equipment and crews stationed in those regions, which could result in a decline in results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Warranty claims resulting from our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We generally warrant the work we perform for a one- to two-year period following substantial completion of a project, subject to further extensions of the warranty period following repairs or replacements. We have not historically accrued any reserves for potential warranty claims as they have been immaterial. The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty-related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health claims, those policies are subject to high deductibles, and we are self-insured up to the amount of the deductible. Since most claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims. We actuarially determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, and reflect those liabilities in our balance sheet as other current and non-current liabilities. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If our insurance claims increase or costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity. Increases in our insurance premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability, liquidity and availability under our credit facility. Because of factors such as increases in claims, projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to continue to provide us with our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. An increase in premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability and liquidity as well as reduce availability under our revolving credit facility. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings, and the need for performance and surety bonds may reduce our availability under our credit facility. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds which would reduce availability under our credit facility. The impact of the Stimulus Act is uncertain. The credit crisis and economic downturn resulted in a tremendous amount of uncertainty with certain projects being delayed or cancelled. While we believe that the Stimulus Act, which was enacted into law in February 2009, should aid the wind, electrical transmission and rural broadband businesses, the extent to which it will is uncertain. 17 Table of Contents The Stimulus Act provides for federal tax incentives applicable to the wind energy industry including an investment tax credit, a U.S. Treasury grant program, the production tax credit and accelerated tax depreciation for certain wind assets. The investment tax credit provides that taxpayers can elect to claim an investment tax credit equal to 30% of the cost of certain qualifying assets in lieu of the production tax credit. The grant program allows taxpayers that elect to claim the 30% investment tax credit in lieu of the production tax credit to receive grants from the U.S. Treasury equal to the amount of the investment tax credit (which grants shall be in lieu of such credit). The production tax credit currently provides the owner of a U.S. wind facility (consisting of the pad, tower, and turbine) with a ten-year credit against its federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity produced at such facility by the owner and sold to unrelated persons during that period. The accelerated depreciation for wind generation assets provides for a five-year depreciable life for these assets, rather than the 15- to 20-year depreciable lives of many non-renewable energy assets. The Stimulus Act also extends the 50% bonus depreciation deduction for property placed in service in 2009. The Stimulus Act also contains several provisions aimed at improving the U.S.’s electrical transmission system in part to facilitate the transfer of renewable energy from rural areas to high demand areas, including $6 billion in funds for renewable energy and transmission loan guarantees. The Stimulus Act also provides for $7.2 billion in funds for the development of broadband facilities throughout the United States. There are, however, many uncertainties surrounding how these provisions of the Stimulus Act will be implemented and their effectiveness and we also cannot guarantee you that we will be able to secure additional work as a result of the Stimulus Act. The tax incentives provided by the Stimulus Act, however, have a finite term. Currently, the election to claim the investment tax credit in lieu of the production tax credit is only available for qualified wind facilities placed in service from 2009 to 2012, the U.S. Treasury grant program will only be applicable to wind projects placed in service in 2009 or 2010 (or after 2010 so long as construction begins in 2009 or 2010 and is completed before 2013), and the production tax credit is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2012 and will not be available for energy generated from wind facilities placed in service after that date unless extended or renewed. We cannot assure you that the new investment tax credit or U.S. Treasury grant program will be effective or that any future efforts to extend or renew the production tax credit, the investment tax credit, or the U.S. Treasury grant program will be successful or that any extension or renewal will be on terms that are as favorable as those that currently exist. In addition, we cannot assure you that any extension or renewal of the production tax credit, the investment tax credit, or the U.S. Treasury grant program would be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. We also cannot assure you that the tax laws providing for accelerated depreciation of wind generation assets will not be modified, amended or repealed in the future. The ability of our customers to obtain financing for these wind farm developments would be impaired or eliminated and the resulting wind farms would be less profitable thereby potentially reducing demand for our wind power services if the investment tax credit or the Department of Energy grant program are not effective or if the federal production tax credit is not extended or renewed, or is extended or renewed at a lower rate. This ability may be further impaired or eliminated if the investment tax credit or the U.S. Treasury grant program in not extended or renewed, or is extended or renewed at a lower rate. Our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if demand for our wind power services were reduced. Changes to renewable portfolio standards could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. A significant portion of our business is currently focused on providing services to owners and operators of wind power facilities. The development of wind facilities is highly dependent upon the federal production tax credit (discussed above) and the existence of renewable portfolio standards and other state incentives. Renewable portfolio standards are state specific statutory provisions specifying that electric utilities generate a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of its plant capacity to renewable energy sources. Additionally, certified renewable energy generators earn certificates for every unit of electricity they produce and can sell these along with their electricity to supply companies. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our wind power-related services. Currently, 26 states in the United States as well as the District of Columbia have adopted renewable portfolio standards or goals. Eliminations of or changes to existing renewable portfolio standards may impact the demand for our wind power-related services. 18 Table of Contents We have agreed to keep certain liabilities related to the state Department of Transportation related projects and assets that were sold in February 2007. Effective February 1, 2007, we sold our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets. On January 24, 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with the buyer of our state Department of Transportation projects and assets to settle previously disclosed warranty, indemnification and other claims primarily relating to work we had performed on the state Department of Transportation projects we sold. In connection with the settlement agreement, the parties also agreed to further amend and restate the Amended Asset Purchase Agreement effective as of January 24, 2008, which we refer to as the “Revised Amended Agreement.” In connection with the sale of our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets and the related settlement, we agreed to keep certain liabilities, mainly related to the cost to maintain and continue certain performance and payment bonds, certain obligations under leases between the parties and certain other litigation matters. We may also be unable to recover any losses we incur as a result of any third party claims to the extent any third parties seek payment from us directly and we are unable to recover such losses from the buyer pursuant to the indemnification obligations contained in the Revised Amended Agreement; including, in the event the buyer were financially unable to meet certain obligations, any losses resulting from creditor claims. Under the terms of the Revised Amended Agreement, the buyer is no longer required to issue a standby letter of credit in our favor in February 2008 to cover any remaining exposure related to our bonded obligations. Instead, pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, the buyer entered into indemnity agreements directly with certain surety bonding companies in connection with our bonded obligations. Therefore, if the buyer is unable to meet its contractual obligations, the surety bonding company can seek its remedies under the indemnity agreement. If the surety bonding company, however, pays the amounts due under the bonds, the surety bonding company will seek reimbursement of such payment from us. Accordingly, we may incur losses in the future related to these contingent liabilities if the buyer does not complete the bonded contracts and we are unable to recover such losses from the buyer pursuant to the indemnification provisions contained in the Revised Amended Agreement. At December 31, 2008, we estimated that the remaining cost to complete these state Department of Transportation projects was $2.6 million on the related $159.7 million in performance and payment bonds. We may incur goodwill impairment charges in our reporting entities which could harm our profitability. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, or SFAS No. 142, we periodically review the carrying values of our goodwill to determine whether such carrying values exceed the fair market value. In connection with our decision to sell substantially all our Canadian net assets, we wrote off goodwill associated with this entity in the amount of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. As a result of the acquisitions we completed during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, we have recorded $52.2 million and $221.5 million, respectively, of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets in connection with acquisitions and payments of earn-outs made during those periods. We expect to continue to record additions to goodwill in future periods in connection with these acquisitions, particularly as a result of future earn-out payments, and future acquisitions. We may incur additional impairment charges related to goodwill in connection with any of our acquisitions in the future if the markets they serve or their business deteriorate. We may incur restructuring or impairment charges which could reduce our profitability. From time to time we review our operations in an effort to improve profitability. We could incur charges in the future as a result of: • eliminating service offerings that no longer fit into our business strategy; • reducing or eliminating services that do not produce adequate revenue or margin; • reducing costs of businesses that provide adequate profit contributions but need margin improvements; and • reviewing new business opportunities capable of utilizing our existing human and physical resources. 19 Table of Contents For example, as a result of the sale of our state Department of Transportation operations, we recorded impairment charges totaling $44.5 million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. All charges related to restructuring or impairment would be reflected as operating expenses and could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity. Our revolving credit facility and senior notes impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.625% senior notes due February 2017. We also have a revolving credit facility under which we had $42.5 million outstanding cash draws at December 31, 2008. We amended and restated our revolving credit facility effective July 29, 2008 and expanded the maximum available borrowing from $150.0 million to $210.0 million, subject to certain restrictions. At December 31, 2008, the availability under the credit facility was approximately $82.2 million net of outstanding standby letters of credit aggregating $82.4 million. The terms of our indebtedness contain customary events of default and covenants that prohibit us from taking certain actions without satisfying certain financial tests or obtaining the consent of the lenders. The prohibited actions include, among other things: • buying back shares in excess of specified amounts; • making investments and acquisitions in excess of specified amounts; • incurring additional indebtedness in excess of specified amounts; • paying cash dividends; • creating certain liens against our assets; • prepaying our other indebtedness, excluding the senior notes; • engaging in certain mergers or combinations; and • engaging in transactions that would result in a “change of control” (as defined in the credit facility and indenture). Our credit facility requires us to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our credit facility, we would be required to obtain further modifications of the facility or secure another source of financing to continue to operate our business. A default could result in the acceleration of either our obligations under the credit facility or under the indenture relating to the senior notes, or both. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we need additional financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing at all or on favorable terms, which may materially decrease our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and skilled employees, we will be unable to operate efficiently which could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our business is labor intensive, and some of our operations experience a high rate of employee turnover. In addition, given the nature of the highly specialized work we perform, many of our employees are trained in and possess specialized technical skills. At times of low unemployment rates in the areas we serve, it can be difficult for us to find qualified and affordable personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain a sufficient skilled labor force necessary to support our operating requirements and growth strategy. Our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. We may also be forced to incur significant training expenses if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills. Additionally, our business is managed by a number of key executive and operational officers and is dependent upon retaining and recruiting qualified management. Labor shortages, increased labor or training costs or the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 20 Table of Contents Increases in the costs of fuel could reduce our operating margins. The price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in fuel costs could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity. Our subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or we may be unable to maintain these relationships, either of which may have a material adverse affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We depend on subcontractors to complete some of the work on some of our projects. There is a risk that we may have disputes with subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, then our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. In addition, the absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a material decrease in profitability and liquidity. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Some of the work we perform is in underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In such a case, we may be liable for fines and damages. We own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. We sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material negative impact our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of 21 Table of Contents hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations and could incur penalties and fines in the future, including in extreme cases, criminal sanctions. We have, from time to time, received notice from the U.S. Department of Transportation that our motor carrier operations will be monitored and that the failure to improve our safety performance could result in suspension or revocation of vehicle registration privileges. If we cannot successfully resolve these issues, our ability to service our customers could be damaged which could lead to a material reduction of our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our financial results are based, in part, upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, a number of estimates and assumptions are made by management that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available. In some cases, these estimates are particularly uncertain and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the revenue recognition for costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, allowance for doubtful accounts, accrued self-insured claims, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, asset lives used in computing depreciation and amortization, including amortization of intangibles, the fair value of securities available for sale and accounting for performance-based stock awards, income taxes (including net deferred tax assets) and other contingencies and litigation. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our business is subject to hazards that could result in substantial liabilities and weaken our financial condition. Construction projects undertaken by our employees involve exposure to electrical lines, pipelines carrying potentially explosive materials, heavy equipment, mechanical failures, transportation accidents, adverse weather conditions and damage to equipment and property. These hazards can cause personal injuries and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations and large damage claims (which could, in some cases, substantially exceed the amount we charge for the associated services). In addition, if serious accidents or fatalities occur or our safety record were to deteriorate, we may be restricted from bidding on certain work and obtaining other new contracts, and certain existing contracts could be terminated. In addition, our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus. See “Risk Factors — Our failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity.” The occurrence of accidents in our business could result in significant liabilities, employee turnover, increase the costs of our projects or harm our ability to perform under our contracts or enter into new contracts with customers, which could materially reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Many of our customers are highly regulated and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for our specialty contracting services and the profitability of those services. Many of our communications customers are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and our energy customers are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, and, in addition, our utility customers are regulated by state public utility commissions. These agencies may interpret the application of their regulations in a manner that is different than the way such regulations are currently interpreted and may impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on our customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, then demand for our specialty contracting services may be reduced. 22 Table of Contents Claims, lawsuits and proceedings could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. We are subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service agreements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide thereunder. Claimants may seek large damage awards and defending claims can involve significant costs. When appropriate, we establish reserves against these items that we believe to be adequate in the light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to case developments. If our reserves are inadequate, or if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity. An adverse determination on any such claim, lawsuit or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Acquisitions involve risks that could result in a reduction of our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. We have made, and in the future plan to make, strategic acquisitions such as our recent acquisition of Wanzek Construction, Inc., our largest strategic acquisition to date. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or may be unable to obtain the consent of our lenders and therefore not be able to complete such acquisitions. We may pay for acquisitions with our common stock or convertible securities which may dilute your investment in our common stock or decide to pursue acquisitions that investors may not agree with. In connection with most of our acquisitions, we have also agreed to substantial earn-out arrangements. To the extent we defer the payment of the purchase price for any acquisition through a cash earn-out arrangement, it will reduce our cash flows in subsequent periods. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including: • the ability to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate the acquired business operations and financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business; • increased indebtedness and contingent purchase price obligations associated with an acquisition; • the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; • the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs; • diversion of management’s attention; and • the ability to hire qualified personnel required for expanded operations. A failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with or resulting from acquisitions could result in a reduction of our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Borrowings or issuances of convertible securities associated with these acquisitions may also result in higher levels of indebtedness which could impact our ability to service our debt within the scheduled repayment terms. Our inability to enforce non-competition agreements with former principals and key management of the businesses we acquire may adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally require that key management and the former principals of the businesses we acquire enter into non-competition agreements in our favor. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. Generally, state courts will examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-competition agreement; consequently, we cannot predict with certainty whether, if challenged, a court will enforce any particular non-competition agreement. If one or more former principals or members of key management of the businesses we acquire leave us and the courts refuse to enforce the non-compete agreement entered into by such person or persons, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Company and Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, our common stock fluctuated from a high of $16.25 per share to a low of $5.55 per share. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including: • announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one of our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities (including any shares issued in connection with earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition); • announcements of new contracts or customers by us or one of our competitors; • market conditions for providers of services to communications companies, utilities and government; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. In connection with certain completed acquisitions, we have issued shares of our common stock or securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock or have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of cash as consideration for future earn-out obligations, and we may agree to issue such additional securities in connection with other future acquisitions; which, if issued, would dilute your share ownership and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. In connection with certain completed acquisitions, we have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of cash for certain earn-out obligations, provided we first register those shares for resale, including one such obligation for which our earn-out obligation is unlimited. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Wanzek we issued 7.5 million shares and $55.0 million in principal amount of 8% convertible notes and granted the sellers certain registration rights. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may issue up to a total 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 75,454,565 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2008. We may also agree to issue additional securities in connection with future acquisitions. Such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders’ individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. A small number of our existing shareholders have the ability to influence major corporate decisions. Jorge Mas, our Chairman, Jose Mas, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Mas family who are employed by MasTec, beneficially owned approximately 29.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, they are in a position to influence: • the vote of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the nomination of individuals to our Board of Directors; and • a change in our control. These factors may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that you might consider in your best interest or that might result in you receiving a premium for your common stock. 24 Table of Contents Our articles of incorporation and certain provisions of Florida law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and the Florida Business Corporation Act, or the FBCA, could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual shareholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors, which may discourage hostile takeover bids. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock, including by the grant of voting control to others, which could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 