Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Customers’ Industries An economic downturn or reduced capital expenditures in the industries we serve may result in a decrease in demand for our services. 11 Table of Contents Commencing in 2001 and through 2003, the communications industry suffered a severe downturn that resulted in a number of our customers filing for bankruptcy protection or experiencing financial difficulties. The downturn resulted in reduced capital expenditures for infrastructure projects, even among those customers that did not experience financial difficulties. Although our strategy is to increase the percentage of our business derived from large, financially stable customers in the communications and utility industries, these customers may not continue to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure projects at current levels. Even if they do continue to fund projects, we may not be able to increase our share of their business. Bankruptcies or decreases in our customers’ capital expenditures and disbursements could reduce our revenue, profitability or liquidity. Many of the industries we serve are subject to consolidation and rapid technological and regulatory change, and our inability or failure to adjust to our customers’ changing needs could reduce demand for our services. We derive, and anticipate that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from customers in the communications industry. The communications industry is subject to rapid changes in technology and governmental regulation. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the services we provide. New or developing technologies could displace the wire line systems used for the transmission of voice, video and data, and improvements in existing technology may allow communications providers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Additionally, the communications industry has been characterized by a high level of consolidation that may result in the loss of one or more of our customers. Utilities have also entered into a phase of consolidation similar to the communications industry which could lead to the same uncertainties. Our industry is highly competitive which may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we compete with other companies in most of the markets in which we operate, ranging from small independent firms servicing local markets to larger firms servicing regional and national markets. We also face competition from existing or prospective customers that employ in-house personnel to perform some of the same types of services we provide. There are relatively few barriers to entry into the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise and skilled personnel may become one of our competitors. Most of our customers’ work is awarded through a bid process. Consequently, price is often the principal factor in determining which service provider is selected, especially on smaller, less complex projects. Smaller competitors are sometimes able to win bids for these projects based on price alone due to their lower costs and financial return requirements. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers, and the loss of one of these customers or a reduction in their demand, the amount they pay or their ability to pay, for our services could impair our financial performance. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 31.8%, 10.2% and 10.0% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, BellSouth and Verizon Communications, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2004, we derived approximately 24.3% and 13.9% of our revenue from DIRECTV® and Comcast Cable Communications, Inc. respectively. In addition, our largest 10 customers accounted for approximately 63.9%, 71.1% and 71.3% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Because our business is concentrated among relatively few major customers, our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of these customers or if the amount of business we obtain from them is reduced, which could result in reduced profitability and liquidity. For example, we experienced a decrease of $103.9 million in revenue for Comcast in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the same period in 2004 due to the completion of the rebuild and upgrade of their broadband networks in 2004. Our revenue, profitability and liquidity could decline if certain customers reduce the amounts they pay for our services or if our customers are unable to pay for our services. A number of our customers filed for bankruptcy protection or experienced financial difficulties commencing in 2001 through 2003 during the last economic downturn in the communications industry which negatively impacted our revenue, profitability and liquidity. In 2003, 2004 and 2005 total provisions for bad debts aggregated to $8.8 million, $5.1 million and $4.9 million, respectively, and were reflected in part in continuing operations and in part in discontinued operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had remaining receivables from customers undergoing bankruptcy reorganization totaling $14.5 million, of which $8.0 million is included in specific reserves for bad debts, with the remaining amounts expected to be recovered through secured and unsecured claims and enforcement of liens or bonds. 12 Table of Contents Most of our contracts do not obligate our customers to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements. Under our multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements, we contract to provide customers with individual project services, through work orders, within defined geographic areas on a fixed fee basis. Under these agreements, our customers have no obligation to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. A significant decline in the projects customers assign us under these service agreements could result in a decline in our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue is not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice, ranging from immediate cancellation to cancellation upon 180 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide a significant portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: • our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; • we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; or • we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with our services provided under fixed-price contracts which could impair our financial performance. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from master service agreements and other service agreements that are fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services on a per unit or aggregate basis and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract and higher costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for our contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability and liquidity. We account for a majority of our projects using units-of-delivery methods or percentage-of-completion, therefore variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability. For installation/construction projects, we recognize revenue on projects on the units-of-delivery or percentage-of-completion methods, depending on the type of project. We recognize revenue on unit based projects using the units-of-delivery method. Under the units-of-delivery method, revenue is recognized as the units are completed at the contractually agreed price per unit. Our profitability is reduced if the actual cost to complete each unit exceeds our original estimates. We are also required to immediately recognize the full amount of any estimated loss on these projects if the estimated costs to complete the remaining units for the project exceed the revenue to be earned on such units. For certain customers with unit based construction/installation contracts, we recognize revenue only after the service is performed and as the related work orders are approved. Revenue from completed work orders not collected in accordance with the payment terms established with these customers is not recognized until collection is assured. If we are required to recognize a loss on a project, we could experience reduced profitability which could negatively impact our liquidity. We recognize revenue on non-unit based fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation of actual results from estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability which could negatively impact our liquidity. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 we incurred approximately $7.8 million and $3.3 million, respectively, of losses on percentage-of-completion contracts a part of which were included in continuing operations and a part in discontinued operations. 13 Table of Contents Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. Approximately 69.3% of our 18-month backlog at December 31, 2005 was comprised of master service agreements and other service agreements which do not require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short notice. These backlog amounts are based on our estimates and therefore may not result in actual receipt of revenue in the originally anticipated period or at all. In addition, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our business is seasonal and is affected by adverse weather conditions and the spending patterns of our customers, exposing us to variable quarterly results. The budgetary years of many of our specialty infrastructure services customers end December 31. As a result, some of our customers reduce their expenditures and work order requests towards the end of the year. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, also affect our ability to perform outdoor services in certain regions of the United States and Canada. As a result, we experience reduced revenue in the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year. Natural catastrophes such as the recent hurricanes in the United States could also have a negative impact on the economy overall and on our ability to perform outdoor services in affected regions or utilize equipment and crews stationed in those regions, which in turn could significantly impact the results of any one or more of our reporting periods. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health claims, those policies are subject to high deductibles, and we are self-insured up to the amount of the deductible. Since most claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims. We actuarially determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, and reflect those liabilities in our balance sheet as other current and non-current liabilities. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If our insurance claims increase or costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity. Increases in our insurance premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability, liquidity and credit facility availability. Because of factors such as increases in claims (primarily workers’ compensation claims), projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to continue to provide us with our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. For example, in connection with our 2005 insurance program, we paid our insurance carrier $18.0 million for cash collateral. In January 2006, we provided to our insurance carrier a $6.5 million letter of credit related to our 2006 insurance plans. An increase in premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability and liquidity as well as reduce availability under our revolving credit facility. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings and the need for performance and surety bonds may reduce our availability under our credit facility. Some of our contracts require performance and surety bonds. Bonding capacity in the infrastructure industry has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Companies that have been successful in renewing or obtaining coverage have sometimes been required to post additional collateral to secure the same amount of bonds which reduces availability under our credit facility. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we 14 Table of Contents may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds which would reduce availability under our credit facility. We reported net losses for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005. If we continue to incur net losses, our overall level of bonding capacity could be reduced. New accounting pronouncements including SFAS 123R may significantly impact our future results of operations and earnings per share. Prior to January 2006, we accounted for our stock-based award plans to employees and directors in accordance with APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” under which compensation expense is recorded to the extent that the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. Under this method, we generally did not recognize any compensation related to employee stock option grants we issue under our stock option plans at fair value. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 123R “Share-Based Payment” or SFAS 123R. This statement, which was effective for us beginning on January 1, 2006, will require us to recognize the expense attributable to stock options granted or vested subsequent to December 31, 2005 and will have a material negative impact on our future profitability. SFAS 123R will require us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in our statement of operations based on the fair values of such equity on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the vesting period. This statement also required us to adopt a fair value-based method for measuring the compensation expense related to share-based compensation. We have evaluated the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R on our results of operations and we expect share-based compensation expense to be at least $2.5 million annually. The actual annual share-based compensation expense could be affected by, among other things, the number of stock options issued annually to employees and directors, volatility of our stock price and the exercise price of the options granted. The adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material negative impact on our profitability. Future changes in generally accepted accounting principles may also have a significant effect on our reported results. We may incur goodwill impairment charges in our reporting entities which could harm our profitability. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, or SFAS No. 142, we periodically review the carrying values of our goodwill to determine whether such carrying values exceed the fair market value. In the year ended December 31, 2004, we charged $12.3 million against goodwill in connection with the bankruptcy of our Brazilian subsidiary. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we charged $11.5 million against goodwill related to the decision to sell substantially all of our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets. These impairment charges are included in our consolidated statements of operations under discontinued operations. We may incur additional impairment charges related to goodwill in any of our reporting entities in the future if the markets they serve or their business deteriorates. We may incur long-lived assets impairment charges which could harm our profitability. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” or SFAS No. 144, we review long-lived assets for impairment. In analyzing potential impairment of our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets we used projections of future discounted cash flows from these assets in 2006 and estimated a selling price by using a weighted probability cash flow analysis based on management’s estimates. These estimates are all subject to changes in the future and if we are not able to sell these projects and assets at the estimated selling price or our cash flow changes because of changes in economic conditions, growth rates or changes in terminal values, we may incur additional impairment charges in the future related to these operations. We may incur restructuring charges which could reduce our profitability. From time to time we review our operations in an effort to improve profitability. We could incur charges in the future as a result of: • eliminating service offerings that no longer fit into our business strategy; • reducing or eliminating services that do not produce adequate revenue or margin; • reducing costs of businesses that provide adequate profit contributions but need margin improvements; and • reviewing new business opportunities capable of utilizing our existing human and physical resources. 15 Table of Contents All charges related to restructuring would be reflected as operating expenses and could reduce our profitability. Our revolving credit facility and senior subordinated notes impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. At December 31, 2005, we had $195.9 million in senior subordinated notes outstanding due February 2008 under an indenture and $0.3 million in other notes payable outstanding. We also have a $150.0 million revolving credit facility of which $4.2 million was outstanding at December 31, 2005. The terms of our indebtedness contain customary events of default and covenants that prohibit us from taking certain actions without satisfying certain financial tests or obtaining the consent of the lenders. The prohibited actions include, among other things: • making investments and acquisitions in excess of specified amounts; • incurring additional indebtedness in excess of specified amounts; • paying cash dividends; • making capital expenditures in excess of a specified amount; • creating certain liens against our assets; • prepaying our other indebtedness, including the senior subordinated notes; • engaging in certain mergers or combinations; and • engaging in transactions that would result in a “change of control” (as defined in the credit facility and indenture). Our credit facility provides that if our net borrowing base availability falls below $20.0 million we must comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In the past, we have not been in compliance with certain financial covenants of our credit facility and have had to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our credit facility, we would be required to obtain further modifications of the facility or secure another source of financing to continue to operate our business. A default could result in the acceleration of either our obligations under the credit facility or under the indenture relating to the senior subordinated notes, or both. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we need additional financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing at all or on favorable terms, which may decrease our profitability and liquidity. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and skilled employees, we will be unable to operate efficiently which could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our business is labor intensive, and some of our operations experience a high rate of employee turnover. At times of low unemployment rates in the areas we serve, it can be difficult for us to find qualified and affordable personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain a sufficient skilled labor force necessary to support our operating requirements and growth strategy. Our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. Additionally, our business is managed by a number of key executive and operational officers and is dependent upon retaining and recruiting qualified management. Labor shortages, increased labor or training costs or the loss of key personnel could result in reduced revenue, profitability and liquidity. Increases in the costs of fuel could reduce our operating margins. The price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and 16 Table of Contents unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in fuel costs could reduce our profitability and liquidity. We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a decrease in profitability and liquidity. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Some of the work we perform is in underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In such a case, we may be liable for fines and damages. We own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. We sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We are currently engaged in litigation related to environmental liabilities in Coos Bay, Oregon. See “Legal Proceedings.” In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our profitability and liquidity. Our failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. We have, from time to time, received notice from the U.S. Department of Transportation that our motor carrier operations will be monitored and that the failure to improve our safety performance could result in suspension or revocation of vehicle registration privileges. If we cannot successfully resolve these issues, our ability to service our customers could be damaged which could lead to a reduction of our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our business is subject to hazards that could result in substantial liabilities and weaken our financial condition. Construction projects undertaken by our employees involve exposure to electrical lines, pipelines carrying potentially explosive materials, heavy equipment, mechanical failures and adverse weather conditions. If serious accidents or fatalities occur, we may be restricted from bidding on certain work and certain existing contracts could be terminated. In addition, if our safety record were to deteriorate, our ability to bid on certain work could suffer. The occurrence of accidents in our business could result in significant liabilities or harm our ability to perform under our contracts or enter into new contracts with customers, which could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents Many of our communications customers are highly regulated and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for our specialty contracting services and the profitability of those services. Many of our communications customers are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission. The FCC may interpret the application of its regulations to communication companies in a manner that is different than the way such regulations are currently interpreted and may impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on our communications customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, then demand for our specialty contracting services may be reduced. Claims, lawsuits and proceedings could reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition. We are subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. Claimants may seek large damage awards and defending claims can involve significant costs. When appropriate, we establish reserves against these items that we believe to be adequate in the light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to case developments. If our reserves are inadequate, or if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. See “Legal Proceedings.” Acquisitions involve risks that could result in a reduction of our profitability and liquidity. We have made, and in the future plan to make, strategic acquisitions. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or may be unable to obtain the consent of our lenders and therefore not be able to complete such acquisitions. We may decide to pay for acquisitions with our common stock which may dilute your investment in our common stock or decide to pursue acquisitions that investors may not agree with. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including: • the ability to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate the acquired business operations and financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business; • increased indebtedness associated with an acquisition; • the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; • the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs; • diversion of management’s attention; and • the ability to hire qualified personnel required for expanded operations. A failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with or resulting from acquisitions could result in a reduction of our profitability and liquidity. Borrowings associated with these acquisitions may also result in higher levels of indebtedness which could impact our ability to service the debt within the scheduled repayment terms. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Common Stock We may incur significant damages and expenses due to the purported class action complaints that were filed against us and certain of our officers. In the second quarter of 2004, several complaints for a purported securities class action were filed against us and certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida and one was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. These cases have been consolidated in the Southern District of Florida. The complaints allege certain violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, related to current and prior period earnings reports. In addition, in December 2004 a derivative action based on the same factual predicate as the purported securities class actions was filed by a shareholder. We may be unable to successfully resolve these disputes without incurring significant expenses. See “Legal Proceedings.” 18 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. From 2001 to 2003, for example, our common stock fluctuated from a high of $24.75 in the first quarter of 2001 to a low of $1.31 in the first quarter of 2003. During 2004 and 2005, our common stock fluctuated from a high of $16.50 to a low of $3.63. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. See “Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy.” Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including: • announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one of our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; • announcements of new contracts or customers by us or one of our competitors; • market conditions for providers of services to communications companies, utilities and government; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. A small number of our existing shareholders have the ability to influence major corporate decisions. Jorge Mas, our Chairman, and other members of his family who are employed by MasTec beneficially own approximately 34.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 17, 2006. Accordingly, they are in a position to influence: • the vote of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the nomination of individuals to our Board of Directors; and • a change in our control. These factors may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that you might consider in your best interest or that might result in you receiving a premium for your common stock. Our articles of incorporation and Florida law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Florida Business Corporation Act could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual shareholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors, which may discourage hostile takeover bids. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock, including by the grant of voting control to others, which could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 