D. Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it may materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The payment services industry is highly competitive, and we have a number of competitors that are larger and have greater financial and other resources. The payment services industry is highly competitive, and our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively. In the countries in which we operate, we face competition from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. These competitors include retail banks, non-traditional payment service providers (such as retailers and mobile network operators, or MNOs), traditional kiosk and terminal operators and electronic payment system operators, as well as other companies which provide various forms of payment services, including electronic payment and payment processing services. Competitors in our industry seek to differentiate themselves by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, accessibility, hours of operation, reliability and price. A significant number of our competitors have greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we have, operate robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In Russia, we face significant competition from major retail banks for our services. Our primary competitors include Sberbank, Russia’s largest retail bank that is majority-owned by the Russian state, and Alfa-Bank, one of the leading privately owned Russian retail banks, both of which have electronic banking systems and large retail networks. Some retail banks are currently developing their own networks of kiosks and terminals and various electronic payment products. Sberbank, for example, has stated that its strategic goals include the promotion of alternative banking channels, such as kiosks, internet banking and mobile banking, and actively develops its online payment services capabilities, including through Yandex.Money, a major electronic payment system operator in Russia. Sberbank has access to significant financial resources and an extensive nationwide network of branches that can serve as a platform for the expansion of its kiosk business. Sberbank is the largest processor of utility bill payments, which constitute a very significant portion of overall consumer spending in our industry. These factors may give Sberbank a substantial competitive advantage over us if it pursues its strategy of establishing a broad kiosk network, internet banking and mobile banking businesses. Our competitors also include the Russian Federal State Unitary Enterprise Postal Service, or Russian Post, which offers certain payment services. Russian Post’s geographical penetration is more dispersed than our physical distribution network (i.e. our kiosks and terminals). For instance, in December 2015, it was reported that the Russian Post acquired a bank to boost its services offering. As a state-sponsored institution, we believe that it is able to provide payment services at significantly lower prices than we are able to match profitably. If any of our competitors with a broad network of branches, including Sberbank, Alfa-Bank or Russian Post, were to establish or actively pursue a kiosk and terminal business, we would lose many of our consumers and our margins could be harmed. The geographical footprint of some of our competitors could also be leveraged by them to gain or increase a market share in the money transfers business. We also face competition from non-traditional payment service providers that have substantial financial resources, such as major telecommunication and small electronics retailers, including Euroset and Svyaznoy, online retailers such as Alibaba, as well as MNOs, in particular the Russian “Big Three” MNOs, MegaFon, VimpelCom and MTS. We also compete against some directly comparable businesses, such as traditional kiosk and terminal operators, including Cyberplat, Compay and Elecsnet, and electronic payment system operators (primarily Yandex.Money and WebMoney). New competitors may penetrate the Russian electronic payment market as well, including established international players such as MoneyGram, Google, Samsung (which acquired an electronic payments company LoopPay in February 2015) or Apple (which introduced its own payments service Apple Pay in September 2014). In 2013, PayPal obtained a Non-Banking Credit Institution license from the CBR in order to conduct business in Russia, which enabled its customers to effect transactions in Russian rubles. In November 2013, Russia’s premier online bank Tinkoff Credit Systems announced the launch of its own electronic wallet system, called Tinkoff Mobile Wallet. In November 2014, the state-owned telecommunications company Rostelekom announced its plans to create its own payment system. Additionally, some of our competitors are currently our major merchants (the Big Three MNOs) or our large agents (for example, Svyaznoy). If we are unable to compete successfully for consumers, agents and merchants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our continued growth depends on our ability to maintain or increase our average net revenue yield. One of the key measures we use to assess our financial performance is our average net revenue yield, which we calculate by dividing adjusted net revenue by the total payment volume of the transactions we process. Our average net revenue yield may be affected by a number of factors, including increased competition, pressure from merchants and/or agents, and acquisitions. We have experienced declines in our average net revenue yield for certain merchant categories in the past, in particular for our Telecom merchants where the merchant fees were sharply reduced by the Big Three MNOs, who have been seeking to reduce costs, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, in 2015, our average net revenue yield declined following the acquisition of the Contact money transfer system (“Contact”) and the Rapida payment processing system (“Rapida”) businesses, both of which had been operating with a significantly lower average net revenue yield than QIWI (excluding Contact and Rapida) during 2015. In order to maintain our competitiveness, we must continue to ensure that our payment processing system provides a more convenient and attractive option for both merchants and customers than alternative systems that may not require payment of a processing fee. Retail banks and various payment service providers are constantly developing low to zero-commission payment channels for their consumers. To attract consumers, we also offer certain services on a commission-free basis, such as peer-to-peer transfers within Visa Qiwi Wallet and certain payments in e-commerce. Despite our efforts, consumers may still choose to use other payment systems, even if those systems do not offer the convenience that we do, because they charge lower fees. In addition, because agents are able to switch between different payment processing systems, we may face additional pressure to reduce the fees we charge due to increased competition from other payment service providers. As a result, if average net revenue yields continue to decline, we must offset the financial impact of such decline by increasing our payment volume or through the development and enhancement of value added services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our payment volumes or that any value added services we introduce will be profitable. If we are unable to offset the decline in our average net revenue yield resulting from this and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Contact and Rapida businesses have historically operated with a significantly lower average net revenue yield than us. As a part of our strategy, we are seeking to increase the average net revenue yields of the Contact and Rapida businesses, for instance, through the renegotiation of legacy merchant contracts. If we are not able to increase the average net revenue yield of Contact and Rapida, our future growth may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to the economic risk and business cycles of our merchants and agents and the overall level of consumer spending. The payment services industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. Economic factors such as employment levels, business conditions, energy and fuel costs, interest rates, inflation rate and the strength of the ruble against foreign currencies (in particular the U.S. dollar) could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using our services or consumers spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A further weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on our merchants, as well as consumers who purchase products and services using our payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the market segments that represent a larger portion of our payment processing volume. In addition, these factors could force some of our merchants and/or agents to liquidate their operations or go bankrupt, or could cause our agents to reduce the number of their locations or hours of operation, resulting in reduced transaction volumes. We also have a certain amount of fixed costs, including salaries and rent, which could limit our ability to adjust costs and respond quickly to changes affecting the economy and our business. Russia’s economy has been facing significant challenges for the past few years due to the combined effect of the ongoing crisis in Eastern Ukraine and Syria, the economic and financial sanctions imposed in connection with it on certain Russian companies and individuals, as well as against entire sectors of Russian economy, by the U.S., EU, Canada and other countries, a steep decline in oil prices, a record weakening of the Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar, a lack of access to financing for Russian issuers, capital flight and a general climate of political and economic uncertainty. See “– Economic instability in Russia could have an adverse effect on our business” and “– The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition”. The Russian economy contracted in 2015 and is expected to continue to contract in 2016. At the same time, the population’s purchasing power is decreasing due to the weakening of the ruble, basic necessities such as food products and utilities are becoming more expensive, and consumer confidence is declining, according to the Russian Consumer Confidence Overall Index reported by Rosstat. According to Rosstat, inflation was 11.4% in 2014 and 12.9% in 2015, while real average wages have been declining (with Rosstat’s preliminary data for 2015 indicating that the population’s real disposable income contracted by 4% in 2015 as compared to 2014). Against this backdrop, household consumption decreased by 10.1% in 2015, according to the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. A prolonged economic slowdown in Russia could have a significant negative effect on consumer spending in Russia and, accordingly, on our business. As a result of the challenging operating environment in Russia, we have experienced slower payment volume growth in certain of our payment categories and payment volume decline in certain others, in particular in Financial Services, which has been impacted by several factors including low consumer loan approval rates and lack of refinancing options available to consumers, the revocation of licenses of several large banks and a decrease in real disposable income. The current financial crisis in Russia is still ongoing. Our loan repayment and money remittance volumes, and to a lesser degree our e-commerce payments volumes, have been particularly affected, due to a shrinking banking sector, increasing unemployment and cautious consumer spending. Moreover, loan repayment volumes and our corresponding revenue from financial services 10 Table of Contents have also been affected by the restrictively high key rate of the CBR as well as increasing bad debt provisions of Russian banks, which together have resulted in lack of access for consumers to refinancing of existing loans and banks’ cautious reluctance to grow their loan portfolios. As a result of the continued deteriorating macroeconomic environment in Russia, we revised our earnings guidance for 2015. Further adverse changes in economic conditions in Russia could adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the rates of the fees levied by our agents on consumers. Our agents pay us an agreed fee using a portion of the fees levied by them on consumers. The fee paid to us by the agent is based on a percentage of the value of each transaction that we process. However, in certain cases the amount of fees levied by an agent on a consumer for each particular transaction is determined by such agent at its own discretion. We do not cap the amount of such fees or otherwise control it. We believe that the fees set by our agents are market-driven, and that our interests and our agents’ interests are aligned with a view to maintaining fees at a level that would simultaneously result in our agents’ profitability and customer satisfaction. However, we can provide no assurance that our agents will not raise fees to a level that will adversely affect the popularity of our products among consumers. At the same time, if we are forced to cap customer fees to protect the strength of our brand or otherwise, we may lose a significant number of agents, which would reduce the penetration of our physical distribution network. In limited instances, we have introduced such caps at the request of our merchants. No assurance can be made that this trend will not increase. Material increases in customer fees by our agents or the imposition of caps on the rates of such fees by us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent public registered accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting during our 2011 audit, and we can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our internal controls relating to preparation of our financial statements have not kept pace with the changes in and increasing scope and volume of our business. Our financial reporting function and system of internal controls is less developed in certain respects than those of payment service providers that operate in more developed markets and may not provide our management with as much or as accurate or timely information. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has defined a material weakness as “a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected.” In connection with their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal controls with respect to our financial statement closing process. As a result of efforts we undertook, we remediated the related material weakness as of December 31, 2012. However, we can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could lead to a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may result in a decline in the market price of our ADSs. If consumer confidence in our business deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is built on consumers’ confidence in our brands, as well as our ability to provide fast, reliable payment services, including electronic payment and payment processing services. As a consumer business, the strength of our brand and reputation are of paramount importance to us. A number of factors could adversely affect consumer confidence in our brand, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. These factors include: • illegal or improper use of our systems and compliance related concerns; • regulatory action or investigations against us; • any significant interruption to our systems and operations; and • any breach of our security system or any compromises of consumer data. In addition, we are largely dependent on our agents and franchisees to which we license our products to maintain the reputation of our brand. Despite the measures that we put in place to ensure their compliance with our performance standards, our lack of control over their operations may result in the low quality of service of a particular agent or franchisee being attributed to our brand, negatively affecting our overall reputation. Furthermore, negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our agents and/or merchants are implicated in fraudulent transactions, irrespective of the accuracy of such publicity or its connection with our current operations or business, could harm our reputation. Any event that hurts our brand and reputation among consumers as a reliable payment services provider could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents A decline in the use of cash as a means of payment or a decline in the use of kiosks and terminals may result in a reduced demand for our services. Substantially all of our business is in emerging markets, including Russia and Kazakhstan, where a substantial part of the population relies on cash payments, rather than credit and debit card payments or electronic banking. We believe that consumers making cash payments are more likely to use our kiosks and terminals as well as Visa Qiwi Wallet, which is most commonly reloaded via kiosks and terminals, than using alternative payment methods. As a result, we believe that our profitability depends on the use of cash as a means of payment and the reach of our kiosks and terminals network. There can be no assurance that over time, the prevalence of cash payments will not decline as a greater percentage of the population in emerging markets adopts credit and debit card payments and electronic banking and as our kiosks and terminals network decreases. The shift from cash payments to credit and debit card payments and electronic banking could reduce our market share and payment volumes and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other factors could also contribute to a decline in the use of kiosks and terminals, including regulatory changes, increases in consumer fees imposed by the agents (see “–We do not control the rates of the fees levied by our agents on consumers”), and development of alternative payment channels. According to data by J’son & Partners Consulting, the number of and the use of kiosks was lower in 2015 than in prior years. In mid-2015, the CBR enhanced its scrutiny over the compliance by the agents with legislation that requires them to remit their proceeds to special accounts, which has had a negative impact on the size of our kiosk network. Through reducing the size of our network, this adversely affects the availability and convenience of our services to consumers, including the convenience of use of Visa Qiwi Wallet, for which historically our kiosks and terminals have been the most popular reload channel. These developments could have the effect of making the use of our kiosks and terminals more expensive for the consumers, as our agents may seek to offset costs associated with the increased compliance burden by increasing consumer fees. Additionally, this could increase the cost to us of consumers reloading their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts, since historically our own kiosks and terminals have been the most popular reload channel (see “–The cost to us of consumers reloading their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts may increase”). All of these factors could undermine the appeal of our services for the consumers. Moreover, failure to comply with such enhanced control measures could result in the CBR imposing fines or restrictions on our activities (see “–Qiwi Bank, Rapida LTD and other Russian banks and credit organizations operate in a highly regulated environment, and increased regulator scrutiny could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations”). All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to expand into new geographical markets, or develop our existing international operations successfully, which could limit our ability to grow and increase our profitability. Our long-term strategy includes entering into new geographical markets and developing our existing operations outside of Russia. Our expansion into new geographical markets and further development of our international operations depend on our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular needs of each local market or country. We may not have adequate financial, technological or personnel and management resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these markets. We may not be able to establish partnerships with merchants or to attract agents to invest in new geographical markets to strengthen our international operations. If we fail to enter new markets or countries and to further develop our international operations, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, we may expand into new geographical markets in which we may not have any previous operating experience. We operate in an industry that is often subject to significant regulation, and our lack of familiarity with the regulatory landscape in new markets may result in our running into unanticipated problems or delays in obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals and licenses. We may not be able to successfully expand in such markets due to our lack of experience. Moreover, we may not be able to execute our strategy in our existing international operations successfully, which may result in additional losses or limit our growth prospects. In addition, expanding internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: • greater difficulty in managing foreign operations; • expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering consumers the ability to transact in major currencies; • higher labor costs and problems integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture; • laws and business practices that favor local competitors; • multiple and changing laws, tax regimes and government regulations; • foreign currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; and • differing intellectual property laws. In addition, our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations or unfavorable interpretation by authorities of these regulations could harm our business. In particular, we are exposed to the risk of being deemed to have permanent establishment in a specific country and transfer pricing risks which could result in additional tax liability. If we are not able to manage these and multiple other risks associated with global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years. We are subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and financing criminal activity and terrorism, financial services regulations, payment services regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, advertising laws and privacy and data protection laws and therefore experience periodic investigations by various regulatory authorities in connection with the same, which may sometimes result in monetary or other sanctions being imposed on us. Further, these laws and regulations vary significantly from country to country. Many of these laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and are often unclear and inconsistent with other applicable laws and regulations, including across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging and increasing our related operating costs and legal risks. In particular, there has been increased public attention and heightened legislation and regulations regarding money laundering and terrorist financing. We sometimes have to make significant judgment calls in applying anti-money laundering legislation and risk being found in non-compliance with it, particularly in relation to its mandatory client identification requirements, if, for example, we process payments made by our consumers from their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts for amounts in excess of the thresholds imposed by anti-money laundering legislation without the required client identification. Although we use all methods available for client identification and are in compliance with market practice (see “—Know-your-client requirements established by Russian anti-money laundering legislation may adversely impact our transaction volumes”) the Russian regulators may view us as being non-compliant and impose fines and other sanctions on us. If local authorities in Russia, Kazakhstan or other countries choose to enforce specific interpretations of the applicable legislation that differ from ours, we may be found to be in violation and subject to penalties or other liabilities. This could also limit our ability in processing some of the payments we currently process going forward and may increase our cost of doing business. In the end of 2014, we became subject to financial monitoring legislation in Kazakhstan, imposing certain client identification requirements on us. In connection with such legislation, we had to restructure our operations in Kazakhstan to make our Kazakh subsidiary, instead of a Russian one, the operator of our payment system in the country which we completed in September 2015. As the anti-money laundering legislation in Kazakhstan is relatively nascent and undeveloped, we face various difficulties while applying it. Currently we and other participants of electronic money market in Kazakhstan cooperate with the local authorities in order to clarify the existing legislative gaps to ensure proper functioning of anti-money laundering procedures in Kazakhstan. However, if we are not able to do so or if we are not able to comply with the new legislation for any other reason, we could become subject to regulatory action in Kazakhstan and could face fines or significant restrictions on our business operations in the country. In addition, there is a draft law under consideration of the Kazakh legislature that seeks to introduce a more comprehensive regulatory regime for the payments market in general. This draft law, if adopted in its current form, would confer certain additional compliance, reporting and other obligations and liabilities upon certain of our subsidiaries. We are currently continuing to assess the potential impact of this new legislation on our business. Since such legislation is nascent and little tested in practice, we may become subject to fines and other penalties if the measures we undertake in response are viewed as insufficient by the relevant regulators. In some jurisdictions where we operate, there is currently little or virtually no legislation addressing electronic payments, and no assurance can be made that if such legislation is adopted it will be beneficial to our business. For instance, if a statutory cap is imposed on the fees that can be charged to the consumers using our kiosks and terminals, it could significantly reduce our margins. From time to time, proposals are submitted to the Russian State Duma to cap the amount of such fees. Furthermore, there can also be no assurance that the mandatory client identification requirements under the anti-money laundering legislation will not change further in a manner adverse to our business, for example, through making the identification process more burdensome or through lowering the thresholds for transactions which non-identified customers or customers that only underwent the simplified identification process can perform (see “Regulation”), which could result in lower payment volumes for us. Currently all transactions with the use of cards issued under international brands, such as Visa and MasterCard, are processed through the facilities of the Russian national payment card system rather than the international payment systems’ own facilities. While not directly applicable to us, these developments have complicated the operations of international payment systems in Russia, and could potentially have broader detrimental consequences for the Russian financial system, which are difficult to evaluate at this stage. While both Visa and MasterCard are continuing to operate in Russia within the framework of the new legislation, there can be no assurance how situation will further develop. If Visa ceases to operate in Russia, we may be unable to issue Visa-branded prepaid cards or continue to operate under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, and thereby lose the possible benefits of association with the Visa brand. This could lower consumer confidence with our products and could reduce the number of transactions made though Visa Qiwi Wallet, which could have a material adverse effect on our Visa Qiwi Wallet business and our business as a whole. It could also render us unable to realize our international expansion plans associated with our partnership with Visa. Additionally, these developments have caused international payment systems to start increasing their fees for Russian banks to protect their margins. Changes in our industry are rapid, and new products that we develop may become subject to government regulation undoing the benefits we expect to derive from such products. Recently we started developing a new cryptocurrency “bitruble” on the basis of the blockchain technology used for bitcoins. We have been working with Russian regulators to ensure that we will be able to launch this product in full compliance with Russian law. However, given that prohibition of bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies in Russia is being actively called for by a number of government officials, no assurance can be given that such launch will eventually take place, or that this product would not become prohibited after the launch, in which case we would have to cease its operations. This would result in a loss of our investment in this project and potentially damage our reputation as a result of being involved with a product that became illegal. 13 Table of Contents Generally, Russian lawmakers and enforcement agencies have recently demonstrated increased scrutiny in matters relating to cyberspace and e-payments, as borne out in the enhanced enforcement activities in the kiosk market, the de-anonymization of e-payments and various other initiatives aimed at increasing state control over online activities. In addition, there is significant uncertainty regarding future legislation on taxation of electronic payments in most of the countries in which we operate, including in respect of the place of taxation. Subsequent legislation and regulation and interpretations thereof, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose us to increased costs, liability and reputational damage that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to complete or integrate successfully any potential future acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures. From time to time, we have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions, partnerships or joint ventures on an on-going basis, some of which may be material. At any time, including currently, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations or diligence evaluations with respect to possible acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures or may have entered into non-binding documents in relation to such transactions. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue our disciplined approach to identifying, executing and integrating strategic acquisitions. Potential future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may pose significant risks to our existing operations if they cannot be successfully integrated. These projects would place additional demands on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources, create operational complexity requiring additional personnel and other resources and require enhanced control procedures. In addition, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire or with which we form a partnership or joint venture. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. Moreover, even if we were successful in integrating newly acquired assets, expected synergies or cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected benefits to us from such transactions. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. Additionally, when making acquisitions it may not be possible for us to conduct a detailed investigation of the nature of the assets being acquired due to, for instance, time constraints in making the decision and other factors. We may become responsible for additional liabilities or obligations not foreseen at the time of an acquisition. In addition, in connection with any acquisitions, we must comply with various antitrust requirements. It is possible that perceived or actual violations of these requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement action or result in us not receiving all necessary approvals in order to complete a desired acquisition. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. To the extent we pay the purchase price with proceeds from the incurrence of debt, it would increase our level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations. Our competitors may be willing or able to pay more than us for acquisitions, which may cause us to lose certain acquisitions that we would otherwise desire to complete. All of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. We have grown rapidly in recent years and need to implement enhanced compliance processes, procedures and controls with respect to the rules and regulations that apply to our business. Our business has grown and developed rapidly in recent years and we are continuing to realign our compliance function with the size of our business. In light of the fact that we are a highly regulated business that processes large volumes of payments, we need to implement enhanced processes, procedures and controls in order to provide reasonable assurance that we are operating in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In particular, the Russian anti-money laundering laws to which we are subject contain numerous requirements with respect to identification of clients, and documentation and reporting of transactions subject to mandatory control and other suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities. Following our acquisition of Rapida LTD, we have had to devote further resources to enhance the compliance function within Rapida LTD, which, at the time of our acquisition, was deficient in several areas. Under guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, companies are allowed to exclude acquisitions from their assessment of internal control over financial reporting during the first year of an acquisition. Therefore, management excluded CIHRUS LLC (“CIHRUS”) and its subsidiaries from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, because it was acquired in June 2015 and we will not be required to assess the internal controls over financial reporting of CIHRUS and its subsidiaries, including Rapida LTD until the filing of our Annual Report on Form 20-F in 2017. We are in the process of integrating our internal control over financial reporting with CIHRUS’s controls and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so effectively in the one-year post-acquisition exemption period or at all. Among others, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other laws concerning our international operations. Similar legislation in other jurisdictions contains similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We have implemented policies and procedures and internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that we, our employees, distributors and other intermediaries comply with the anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. However, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any policies, procedures and internal controls, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the policies, procedures and internal controls. There can be no assurance that such policies or procedures or internal controls will work effectively at all times or protect us against liability under these or other laws for actions taken by our employees, distributors and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. 14 Table of Contents Our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to handle large and growing payment volumes and amounts of consumer funds, as well as comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to manage consumer funds or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the imposition of fines, harm our reputation and significantly diminish use of our products. In addition, if we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities and/or officials (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and change in our industry and provide new services to our clients, the use of our services could decline, reducing our revenues. The payment services industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the entrance of more established market players seeking to expand into these businesses. In order to remain competitive, we continually seek to expand the services we offer and to develop new projects. These projects carry risks, such as delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of customer acceptance. In our industry, these risks are acute. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our services less desirable, or even obsolete, to consumers. In addition, if alternative payment mechanisms become widely available, substituting our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be unable to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services. Our development efforts could result in increased costs and we could also experience a loss in business that could reduce our earnings or could cause a loss of revenue if promised new services are not timely delivered to our clients, are not able to compete effectively with our competitors’ or do not perform as anticipated. In order to remain competitive in an innovative industry such as ours, we have to make investments in start-up companies or undertake large research and development initiatives. If our investments in start-up companies or research and development initiatives do not yield the expected results, we may lose money, time and effort invested. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to successfully address the rapidly evolving market for transactions on mobile devices. Mobile devices are increasingly used for E-commerce transactions. A significant and growing portion of our customers access our platform through mobile devices. We may lose customers if we are not able to continue to meet our customers’ mobile and multi-screen experience expectations. The variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. In addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets. Our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continuously increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and our third party providers’ systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of numerous systems, including our computer systems, software and telecommunications networks, as well as the data centers that we lease from third parties. Our systems and operations, or those of our third party providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, flood, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, vendor failure, unauthorized entry, improper operation and computer viruses. In addition, because both of our data centers used for processing payments are located in the city of Moscow, a catastrophic event affecting the city of Moscow may result in the loss of both data centers. Substantial property and equipment loss, and disruption in operations as well as any defects in our systems or those of third parties or other difficulties could expose us to liability and materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any outage or disruptive efforts could adversely impact our reputation, brand and future prospects. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to direct loss, liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. We store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as credit or debit card numbers, mobile phone numbers and other identification data, and we have ultimate liability to our consumers for our failure to protect this data. We have experienced breaches of our security by hackers in the past, and breaches could occur in the future. In such circumstances, our encryption of data and other protective measures have not prevented unauthorized access and may not be sufficient to prevent future unauthorized access. For example, in January 2014 we discovered unauthorized activity in 687 of our accounts which were inappropriately credited, and the improperly credited funds were subsequently withdrawn. Although we do not believe that any confidential customer account data was compromised as a result of the activity, we incurred a loss of RUB 88 million. Rapida LTD also experienced several security breaches prior to our acquisition of the company. Any future breach of our system, including through employee fraud, may subject us to material losses or liability, including fines and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit or debit card information, identity theft, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients from using electronic payments as well as kiosks and terminals generally and our services specifically, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, result in the imposition of material penalties and fines by state authorities and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of our agreements with Visa Inc., Visa could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. Under our agreements with Visa, we are required to comply with both the terms of those agreements and the terms of Visa Core Rules and Visa Product and Service Rules. If we do not comply with the terms of the agreements or the rules, Visa could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate the registrations that allow us to process transactions on its network. In addition, under our agreements with Visa, Visa is entitled to terminate the agreements in case of a material breach by us or if it determines the agreements are contrary to its interests. If we are in breach of the agreements or Visa otherwise terminates its agreements with us, we may be unable to issue Visa-branded prepaid cards or continue to operate under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair our registration, could prevent us from issuing Visa-branded prepaid cards or operating under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, thereby reducing the number of transactions made through Visa Qiwi Wallet. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, as well as on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost to us of consumers reloading their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts may increase. We make available to our consumers a large variety of methods to reload the Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts, including, among others, mobile phone balances, bank cards, kiosks and terminals and ATMs. The top up methods have different cost implications for us. For example, on payments made through the kiosks and terminals owned by our agents, we historically paid lower fees for reloading the Visa Qiwi Wallet than on payments made from bank cards as well as certain other channels. We currently do not attempt to direct consumer preferences towards particular reload methods. If their preferences are for other reload methods that come at a higher cost to us, our margins could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Qiwi Bank, Rapida LTD and other Russian banks and credit organizations operate in a highly regulated environment and increased regulator scrutiny could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In September 2010, we acquired Qiwi Bank from certain of our shareholders. Qiwi Bank provides issuing, acquiring and deposit settlement functions within our group. In June 2015 we acquired Rapida LTD from Otkritie Investment Cyprus Limited, or Otkritie. Rapida LTD is a non-banking credit organization and operates payment processing and money transfer settlements within the group. All banks and non-banking credit organizations operating in Russia are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Requirements imposed by regulators, including capital adequacy, liquidity reserves, prudential ratios, loss provisions and other regulatory requirements are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect consumers and other third parties with whom a bank deals. These regulations may limit our activities, and may increase our costs of doing business, or require us to seek additional capital in order to comply with applicable capital adequacy or liquidity requirements. Existing laws and regulations could be amended, the manner in which laws and regulations are enforced or interpreted could change and new laws or regulations could be adopted. In July 2013, the CBR completed an inspection of Qiwi Bank and discovered a number of deficiencies in its compliance with certain banking regulations in relation to, among other things, the mechanics of its settlements with JSC QIWI as a payment agent, reporting requirements, credit risk assessment, prudential ratio calculation and reserve requirements and governance. The CBR also noted that Qiwi Bank’s internal controls did not reflect the nature and scope of the bank’s activities. We have rectified these deficiencies but had to pay a fine of RUB 150,000. In September 2014, the CBR discovered a number of violations of the Russian National Payment System Law at Qiwi Bank, including, among other things, violations of some of the CBR reporting obligations and failure to comply with statutory thresholds for electronic money transfers. The CBR has issued an order to Qiwi Bank to rectify discovered violations, and Qiwi Bank has undertaken measures to do so and implement the CBR’s recommendations, including adoption of an internal action plan, which contains the step-by-step measures to ensure no such violations will occur in the future. As of the date of this annual report, we have rectified these violations. In April 2015 we have received order from the CBR prescribing QIWI Bank to comply with applicable electronic payments thresholds requirements in connection with electronic money transfers and the topping up of electronic accounts. We requested certain clarifications from the CBR, for which we are awaiting a reply. In May 2015 the CBR finished a scheduled inspection of Rapida LTD, as a result of which various legal breaches were uncovered and the CBR imposed a range of restrictions on the operations of Rapida LTD for the period ending December 4, 2015. After the acquisition, we began implementing compliance and internal control procedures in Rapida LTD aimed to rectify the detected violations and to prevent them in future. There can be no assurance that such measures will be successful. In September 2015 Rapida LTD was ordered by the CBR to reclassify claims towards one of its debtors into a lower quality category and to create reserves to cover its exposure towards such debtor, which Rapida LTD has fully complied with. Later the CBR revealed legal violations by the Rapida LTD resulting from a technical glitch of its IT system. Further to the examination of these incidents, the CBR imposed on Rapida LTD a fine in the amount of RUB 90 000, which has been paid. In December 2015 the CBR issued two further orders to Rapida LTD in connection with a number of violation, including breaches 16 Table of Contents of the enhanced controls that the CBR has implemented to ensure compliance by the agents with legislation that requires them to remit their proceeds to special accounts (see “–We are subject to extensive government regulation”) and imposed a range of restrictions on the operations of Rapida LTD the compliance with which is at times problematic since it requires full compliance by Rapida LTD agents with the enhanced measures adopted by the CBR, which is beyond control of Rapida LTD. There can be no assurance that similar inspections in the future or increased scrutiny by the CBR will not result in discovery of more significant violations of various banking regulations, or what sanctions the CBR would choose to employ against us if this were to happen. Any breach of applicable regulations could expose us to potential liability, including in extreme instances the revocation of our banking license. Revocation of any of our banking licenses would significantly hinder our ability to process payments, and would result in a decrease of our profitability, damage our reputation and could cause other regulators to increase their scrutiny of our activities. Furthermore, under our arrangements with Visa, Qiwi Bank represents, among other things, that it is in good standing and has been granted all necessary authorizations from applicable governmental and regulatory authorities to operate a Visa card program. If any of Qiwi Bank’s licenses are revoked or it loses its authorization to operate a Visa card program, QIWI Bank will not be able to sustain the same level of operation under Visa card program. As a result of such breach Visa could terminate its agreements with us. For these reasons, any breach of laws and regulations by Qiwi Bank or the revocation of its banking licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the CBR has considerably increased the intensity of its supervision and regulation of the Russian banking sector. Historically, the revocation of banking licenses by the CBR has been a relatively rare event mostly occurring to local banks with little assets and little or no significance for the banking sector as a whole. Starting October 2013, however, the CBR has launched a campaign aimed at cleansing the Russian banking industry, revoking the licenses from an unusually high number of banks (including significant banks such as Master-Bank, Investbank, ProBusinessBank, Svyaznoy Bank, Vneshprombank and others) on allegations of money laundering, financial statements manipulation and other illegal activities, as well as inability of certain banks to discharge their financial obligations. These measures resulted in turmoil in the banking industry, instigated bank runs on a number of Russian credit institutions, and severely undermined the trust that the Russian population had with private banks. In addition to putting increasing regulatory pressure on Qiwi Bank and Rapida LTD, this change in policy by the CBR has also impacted, and we expect may continue to impact, our business in a number of other ways, including reduced spending by the banks on advertising and a decrease in consumer lending, resulting in less loan repayments through our network and therefore reduced fees. As a result of a general decrease in banking activity, among other factors, Russia may continue to experience less robust consumer spending, which could also result in the reduction of our payment processing fees. In addition, these factors could further tighten liquidity on the Russian market and add pressure onto the ruble. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could affect attractiveness of our services adversely and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could diminish consumer confidence in, and the attractiveness of, our services. Breaches of our consumers’ privacy and our security systems could have the same effect. We sometimes take measures to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security, such as freezing consumer funds, which could damage relations with our consumers. These measures heighten the need for prompt and attentive customer service to resolve irregularities and disputes. In addition we have previously received negative media coverage regarding customer disputes. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could impact our profitability significantly. Any inability by us to manage or train our customer service representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with our agents and our merchants do not include exclusivity clauses and may be terminated unilaterally at any time or at short notice. We normally do not include exclusivity clauses in our agreements with agents or merchants. Accordingly, our merchants and agents do not have any restrictions on dealings with other providers and can switch from our payment processing system to another without significant investment. Additionally, due to mandatory provisions of Russian civil law, our agreements with agents may be unilaterally terminated by the agents at any time, and our agreements with merchants may be unilaterally terminated by the merchants upon one month’s prior notice. The termination of our contracts with existing agents or merchants or a significant decline in the amount of business we do with them as a result of our contracts not having exclusivity clauses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our payment system has been and may continue to be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes, which could expose us to additional liability and harm our business. Despite measures we have taken and continue to take, our payment system has been and may continue to be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes. These include use of our payment services in connection with fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud, terrorist financing, trafficking, and prohibited sales of restricted products. 17 Table of Contents Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities. It is possible that fraudulent, illegal or improper use of our payment system could increase in the future. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage these risks. We are not able to monitor in each case the sources for our counterparties’ funds or the ways in which they use them. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in fraudulent transactions or publicity regarding chargeback disputes could harm our reputation and reduce consumer confidence in the use of our kiosks and terminals and virtual wallets. In addition, changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government authorities. Moreover, the perceived risk of the use of e-payments to finance fraudulent, illegal or improper activities is causing the regulators to impose restrictions on the payment systems’ operations that negatively affect regular compliant transactions as well. Any resulting claims could damage our reputation and any resulting liabilities (including the revocation of applicable banking licenses or significant fines), the loss of transaction volume or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is exposed to counterparty and credit risks. We seek to sell services on a prepayment basis or to ensure that our counterparties have low credit risk profiles, such as large merchants and agents. Nevertheless, we are exposed to the risk of non-payment or other default under our contracts with our agents and merchants. If we provide trade credit or loans to an agent and we are unable to collect loans or proceeds paid to the agent by its consumers due to the agent’s insolvency, fraud or otherwise, we must nonetheless complete the payment to the merchant on behalf of the consumer. As a result, our losses would not be limited to a loss of revenue in the form of fees due to us from the agent, but could amount to the entire amount of consumer payments accepted by such agent for a certain period of time. We also have significant receivables due from some of our merchants and agents, and may not recover these receivables in the event of such merchants’ bankruptcy or otherwise. As of December 31, 2015, we had credit exposure to our agents of RUB 1,704 million and to our merchants of RUB2,894 million. Our receivables from merchants are generally unsecured and non-interest bearing, our receivables and loans from agents are generally interest-bearing and unsecured. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor their creditworthiness will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk. If we experience material defaults by our agents and/or merchants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to currency risks. Our financial statements are expressed in Russian rubles, while our revenues and expenses outside Russia are in local currencies and some of our assets and liabilities are in foreign currencies (predominantly cash from offering proceeds denominated in U.S. dollars). Accordingly, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the ruble and such other currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates also affect the carrying value of assets on our consolidated statement of financial position, which, depending on the statement of financial position classification of the relevant asset, can result in losses on our consolidated statement of financial position. In addition, because our earnings are primarily denominated in Russian rubles whereas our ADSs are quoted in U.S. dollar, currency exchange rate fluctuations between the Russian ruble and the U.S. dollar significantly affect the price of our ADSs. Over the past ten years, the Russian ruble has fluctuated dramatically against the U.S. dollar and the euro. Due to the economic sanctions imposed on certain Russian companies and individuals by the US, EU, Canada and other countries, as well as the volatility in oil prices, high inflation and a sharp capital outflow from Russia, the Russian ruble has significantly depreciated against the U.S. dollar and euro since the beginning of 2014. According to the CBR, from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 and from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, the ruble has depreciated by 30% and 72% against the U.S. dollar, respectively, and by 17% and 52% against the euro, respectively. Further fluctuations of the ruble could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our ADSs. Regulatory authorities in Russia and Kazakhstan could determine that we hold a dominant position in our markets, and could impose limitations on our operational flexibility which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian anti-monopoly authorities impose various requirements on companies that occupy a dominant position in their markets. One of the important questions is to identify and define the relevant market, in which the entity in question operates. There are numerous aspects to be taken into account, including interchangeability or substitutability of the products and/or services for the consumer, their pricing and intended use. Different approaches may be applied in this respect by anti-monopoly authorities and the participants of the market. Thus, the state authorities may conclude that we hold a dominant position in one or more of the markets in which we operate. If they were to do so, this could result in limitations on our future acquisitions and a requirement that we pre-clear with the authorities any changes to our standard agreements with merchants and agents, as well as any specially negotiated agreements with business partners. In addition, if we were to decline to conclude a contract with a third party this could, in certain circumstances, be regarded as abuse of a dominant market position. Any abuse of a dominant market position could lead to administrative penalties and the imposition of a fine of up to 15% of our annual revenue for the previous year. In addition, in April 2012 the Competition Protection Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or the Competition Protection Agency, included our subsidiary in Kazakhstan in the state register of market participants with dominant or monopoly 18 Table of Contents position in Kazakhstan. Entities included in this register are prohibited from performing actions that may have a detrimental effect on competition, restrict access to the market or infringe the rights of consumers, including predatory or discriminatory pricing, unjustified resale restrictions, imposing unreasonable terms, or refusing to supply or halting supplies for unjustified reasons. Status as a dominant market participant also puts an entity under much more stringent scrutiny from the Competition Protection Agency, therefore increasing the probability of being investigated and penalized if a violation occurs. As a result, the Competition Protection Agency may impose restrictions on our operations, or take other measures that may be inconsistent with our strategy. The maximum liability to which we can be exposed is a penalty equal to 10% of the revenue earned as a result of market abuse, plus confiscation of the full amount of such revenue. The maximum liability is determined in reference to not more than one year of such revenues. In November 2012, our subsidiary in Kazakhstan became subject to an investigation conducted by the Competition Protection Agency concerning alleged abuse of its dominant position in Kazakhstan’s electronic payments market. No fine has been levied as a result of the investigation, but the Competition Protection Agency ordered us to rectify certain violations of the anti-trust legislation. We have complied with the orders and have taken actions to remedy these violations. However, we expect similar investigations by the Competition Protection Agency to recur in the future, and we cannot reliably estimate the amounts of claims that can be brought against us in connection with these investigations. In March and May 2014, our subsidiary in Kazakhstan received various requests from anti-trust authorities for information related to its business in connection with the analysis of the Kazakhstan market of payments through kiosks, which we complied with. There were no further anti-trust investigations or developments in 2015, however, as of the date of this annual report, it remains unclear what, if any, actions, the Kazakh authorities may take in connection with this. These limitations may reduce our operational and commercial flexibility and responsiveness, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We also maintain patents for certain of our technologies. We customarily require our employees and independent contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or otherwise to agree to keep our proprietary information confidential when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include clauses requiring our employees to assign to us all of the inventions and intellectual property rights they develop in the course of their employment and to agree not to disclose our confidential information. Nevertheless, others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property. Further, contractual arrangements may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or ensure an adequate remedy in the event of any unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Because of the limited protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, as well as in certain jurisdictions in which we have started expanding our operations, such as Moldova, Romania and Belarus, our intellectual property rights may not be as protected as they may be in more developed markets such as the United States. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights (including trade secrets and know-how), which could be expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete and could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. Additionally, we do not hold any patents for our business model or our business processes, in part because our ability to obtain them in Russia is subject to legislative constraints, and we do not currently intend to obtain any such patents in Russia or elsewhere. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services or technology are claimed to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third party’s intellectual property or proprietary rights. Such claims could include patent infringement, copyright infringement, trademark infringement, trade secret misappropriation or breach of licenses. In addition, while we seek to obtain copyright registration certificates for the critical software we develop, our rights to software obtained as works for hire might be potentially challenged by the employees and former employees or developers of such software. We may not be able to successfully defend against such claims, which may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and also might require us to redesign affected services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services. In such circumstances, if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Additionally, in recent years, non-practicing entities have been acquiring patents, making claims of patent infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies in our industry. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit and successfully defend these claims, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. We may use open source software in a manner that could be harmful to our business. We use open source software in connection with our technology and services. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. Moreover, some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The use of such open source code may ultimately require us to replace certain code used in our products, pay a royalty to use some open source code or discontinue certain products. Any of the above requirements could be harmful to our business, financial condition and operations. 19 Table of Contents We do not have and may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance to protect ourselves from business risks. The insurance industry in Russia is not yet fully developed, and many forms of insurance protection common in more developed countries are not yet fully available or are not available on comparable or commercially acceptable terms. Accordingly, while we hold certain mandatory types of insurance policies in Russia, we do not currently maintain insurance coverage for business interruption, property damage or loss of key management personnel as we have been unable to obtain these on commercially acceptable terms. We do not hold insurance policies to cover for any losses resulting from counterparty and credit risks or fraudulent transactions. We also do not generally maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for most types of business-related risks. Accordingly, our lack of insurance coverage or reserves with respect to business-related risks may expose us to substantial losses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In a dynamic industry like ours, the ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to our success and growth. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. In order for us to compete and grow successfully, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. This is particularly true with respect to qualified and experienced software engineers and IT staff, who are highly sought after and are not in sufficient supply in Russia and in most other markets in which we operate. The market for such personnel is highly competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to replace effectively current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. It may also be difficult for us to obtain necessary qualified personnel with local experience to support our international growth, which may jeopardize our ongoing and planned expansion into new geographies. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Corporate Governance Matters and Organizational Structure The substantial share ownership position of our chief executive officer Sergey Solonin may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our chief executive officer Sergey Solonin, through Saldivar Investments Limited, beneficially owns 19.7 % of our class A shares, representing approximately 59.4 % of the voting power of our issued share capital. As a result of this concentration of share ownership, Mr. Solonin has sole discretion over any matters submitted to our shareholders for approval that require a simple majority vote and has significant voting power on all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval that require a qualified majority vote, including the power to veto them. Our articles of association require the approval of no less than 75% of present and voting shareholders for matters such as amendments to the constitutional documents of our company, dissolution or liquidation of our company, reducing the share capital, buying back shares and approving the total number of shares and classes of shares to be reserved for issuance under any employee stock option plan or any other equity-based incentive compensation program of our group. Matters requiring a simple majority shareholder vote include, among other matters, increasing our authorized capital, removing a director, final dividend declaration, approving the annual audited accounts and appointing auditors. This concentration of ownership could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market price of our shares. The interests of Mr. Solonin may not always coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Our ADS holders have limited rights in relation to the appointment of our directors, including our independent directors. Other than in certain limited cases provided for in our articles of association, our directors are elected by shareholder weighted voting, sometimes referred to as cumulative voting, under which each shareholder has the right to cast as many votes as the voting rights attached to its shares multiplied by a number equal to the number of board seats to be filled by shareholders. As a result, our class A shareholders will have the ability to appoint, through the weighted voting set forth in our articles of association, at least a majority of the board of directors for the foreseeable future. The interests of our directors may therefore not be aligned with or be in the best interests of the holders of our ADSs. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Cyprus law and our articles of association, and differ in some important respects from the typical rights of shareholders under U.S. state laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in Cyprus. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Cyprus law and our articles of association are different than under the laws of some U.S. state laws. For example, by law existing holders of shares in a Cypriot public company are entitled to pre-emptive rights on the issue of new shares in that company (provided such shares are paid in cash and the pre-emption rights have not been disapplied). In addition, our articles of association include other provisions, which differ from provisions typically included in the governing documents of most companies organized in the U.S.: • our board of directors can only take certain actions by means of a supermajority vote of 75% of its members, including approving our annual budget and business plan, disposing of our interest in a subsidiary if such disposal results in a change of control over such subsidiary, issuing shares for consideration other than cash and other actions; • our shareholders are able to convene an extraordinary general meeting; and • if our board of directors exercises its right to appoint a director to fill a vacancy on the board created during the term of a director’s appointment, shareholders holding 10.01% of the voting rights of the company may terminate the appointment of all of the directors and initiate reelection of the entire board of directors. 20 Table of Contents As a result of the differences described above, our shareholders may have rights different to those generally available to shareholders of companies organized under U.S. state laws and our board of directors may find it more difficult to approve certain actions. Acquisitions of Russian entities are subject to pre-closing approval by multiple government authorities which exercise significant discretion as to whether a consent should be granted or not, and are regulated by a significant body of law which is often ambiguous and open to varying interpretations. Due to our ownership of Qiwi Bank, any transactions resulting in the acquisition of more than 50% of our voting power or the right to otherwise direct our business activities would become subject to preliminary approval by the CBR. In addition, any acquisition of more than 50% of our voting power may also be subject to a preliminary approval by the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service, or the FAS. Furthermore, Qiwi Bank and Rapida LTD hold encryption licenses which are necessary to conduct their operations, and by virtue of this may be deemed to be “strategic enterprises” for the purposes of the Federal Law of the Russian Federation No. 57-FZ “On the Procedure for Foreign Investments in Enterprises which are Strategically Important for the State Defense and National Security”, dated April 29, 2008, as amended. In this case, any acquisition of control over our company would require an approval of a specialized government commission, which is a relatively lengthy process that typically takes between three and six months in practice. See “Regulation—Regulation of Strategic Investments.” These regulatory approval requirements may have the effect of making a takeover of our company more difficult or less attractive, and may prevent or delay a change of control, which could have a negative impact on the liquidity of, and investor interest in, our ADSs. Additionally, under Russian law, the depositary may be treated as the owner of the class B shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore, could be deemed a beneficial shareholder of Qiwi Bank and Rapida LTD. This is different from the way other jurisdictions treat ADSs. As a result, the depositary may be subject to the approval requirements of the CBR, the FAS and the government commission described above in the event an amount of our shares representing over 50% of our voting power is deposited in the ADS program. Accordingly, our ADS program may be subject to an effective limit of 50% of our voting power, unless the depositary obtains FAS, CBR and potentially additional government commission approvals to increase its ownership in excess of 50% of our voting power. This could limit our ability to raise capital in the future and the ability of our existing shareholders to sell their ADSs in the public markets, which in turn may impact the liquidity of share capital. The quota imposed on foreign ownership of Russian banks may make a takeover of our company by a foreign purchaser impossible. Under current Russian law, the Russian government is entitled, upon consultation with the CBR, to propose legislation imposing a quota on foreign ownership in the Russian banking industry, covering both Russian branches of international banks and foreign participation in the charter capital of Russian banks, such as Qiwi Bank. In December 2015, a 50% quota on foreign ownership was introduced, subject to certain exemptions. If such quota is exceeded, a takeover of our company by a foreign purchaser may become impossible, which could limit, prevent or delay a change of control of our company and in turn could negatively impact the liquidity of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on Nasdaq, we have elected to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain Nasdaq requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on Nasdaq, we are permitted in certain cases to, and do, follow Cyprus corporate governance practices instead of the corresponding requirements of Nasdaq. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of Nasdaq requirements must submit to Nasdaq in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any significant requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed instead of any such requirement. We follow Cyprus corporate governance practices with regard to the composition of our board of directors which, unlike the applicable Nasdaq rule for U.S. corporations, do not require that a majority of our directors be independent. As a result, although currently five out of nine directors on our board are independent, we cannot assure you that our board of directors will always have a majority of independent directors in the future. We also do not have a compensation committee or a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors, and our independent directors do not meet in regular executive sessions. In addition, our board of directors has not made any determination whether it will comply with certain Nasdaq rules concerning shareholder approval prior to our taking certain company actions, including the issuance of 20% or more of our then-outstanding share capital or voting power in connection with an acquisition, and our board of directors, in such circumstances, may instead determine to follow Cypriot law. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under Nasdaq corporate governance rules. Our ADS holders may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our class A shares and class B shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Our ADS holders’ right to receive certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement. Except as set forth in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the class B shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have to appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the class B shares represented by the ADSs. Upon receipt of voting instructions from an ADS holder, the depositary will vote the underlying class B shares in accordance with these instructions. Pursuant to our articles of association, 21 Table of Contents we may convene an annual shareholders’ meeting or a shareholders’ meeting called for approval of matters requiring a 75% shareholder vote upon at least 45 days’ notice and upon at least 30 days’ notice for all other shareholders’ meetings. If we give timely notice to the depositary under the terms of the deposit agreement, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure our ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the class B shares underlying their ADSs, and it is possible that our ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote and there may be nothing such holders can do if the class B shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as requested. In addition, although our ADS holders may directly exercise their right to vote by withdrawing the class B shares underlying their ADSs, they may not receive sufficient advance notice of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting to withdraw the class B shares underlying their ADSs to allow them to vote with respect to any specific matter. Furthermore, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our ADSs. As a result, holders of ADSs may not receive distributions made by us. Risks Relating to the Russian Federation and Other Markets in Which We Operate Emerging markets, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant legal, economic and political risks. Investors in emerging markets, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. Investors should also note that emerging economies are subject to rapid change and that the information set out herein may become outdated relatively quickly. Accordingly, investors should exercise particular care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, their investment is appropriate. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved, and investors are urged to consult with their own legal and financial advisors before making an investment in our ADSs. The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. The Ukraine crisis, which started in late 2013 and remains unresolved, has brought Russian relations with the West to a post-Cold War low point. Western countries protested when Crimea (which had been part of Ukraine since 1954) entered into the Russian Federation in March 2014 and have complained that Russia is fomenting civil insurrection in east Ukraine. In response to the Ukraine crisis, the European Union and the United States (as well as other countries such as Norway, Canada and Australia) have passed a variety of economic sanctions against Russia. One form these sanctions have taken is to identify certain persons as ‘designated nationals’ with the basic practical consequences that U.S. persons cannot do business with them while EU persons cannot provide funds or other economic resources to them, their assets in the EU and United States are subject to seizure and in the case of individuals they can be subject to travel bans. A number of Russian government officials, businessmen, banks and companies have been so designated. Another form these sanctions have taken, with greater consequence for the Russian economy, is ‘sectoral’ sanctions with the basic consequence that several of Russia’s leading banks – including Gazprombank, Vnesheconombank, Bank of Moscow, Russian Agricultural Bank, VTB Bank, and Sberbank – cannot access Western capital (as EU and U.S. persons are prohibited from extending them debt financing in excess of 30 days or dealing in their new equity issuances and providing related services); similar sectoral sanctions have been applied against several prominent Russian oil and gas and defense companies. Other Western sanctions have been imposed in respect of, among other things, Russian military defense entities, dual use technologies, sophisticated off-shore oil drilling technologies and doing business in Crimea. While the current sanctions do not target us or the payments industry more generally, these sanctions have had and may continue to have the effect of damaging the Russian economy by, among other things, accelerating capital flight from Russia, weakening of the Russian ruble, exacerbating the negative investor sentiment towards Russia and making it harder for Russian companies to access international financial markets for debt and equity financing. In addition, a number of Western businesses have curtailed or suspended activities in Russia or dealings with Russian counterparts for reputational reasons even though currently neither such activities nor dealings with their relevant Russian counterparts were proscribed by the sanctions. An expansion of the existing or introduction of new sanctions, including those mentioned above, or sanctions specifically targeting us or our management or shareholders, or our sector generally, could result in our international customers, suppliers, shareholders and other business partners revising their relationship with us for compliance, political, reputational or other reasons, which could affect our business. As a countermeasure to the Western sanctions, Russia imposed its own sanctions on the import of certain foodstuffs from the EU, the United States and other countries. Although these sanctions do not currently directly affect our business, additional sanctions or other countermeasures imposed by Russia against the U.S. or the E.U. may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or the price of our ADSs. In addition, following the accession of Crimea to Russia, which is seen by the EU as illegal annexation of Crimea, we started operating in that region with a limited number of kiosks. On December 19, 2014, U.S. President Obama signed a new executive order imposing comprehensive sanctions on the Crimea region. Almost all transactions involving a U.S. person or that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction and that directly or indirectly involve an individual or entity in Crimea are prohibited, with the exception of certain transactions involving certain agricultural commodities, medicine and medical devices. The executive order also permits the designation of persons that operate in Crimea, 22 Table of Contents leaders of entities operating in Crimea, entities that are owned or controlled by a person that is designated by OFAC, or persons that provide material assistance or financial, material, or technological support to a person that is designated by OFAC. The EU has similarly introduced a broad set of sanctions through the Council Regulation (EU) 692/2014 as amended by Regulation (EU) 1351/2014, including: an investment ban prohibiting to acquire new or extend any existing participation or ownership of real estate located in Crimea or Sevastopol, acquire new or extend any existing participation or ownership or control of an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol, provide financing to an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol, create any joint venture in Crimea or Sevastopol or with an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol or provide investment services directly related to the above activities; an embargo on certain listed goods and technology that are suited for the key sectors of transport, telecommunications, energy and mining; and an import ban on goods originating from Crimea and Sevastopol and on financial assistance as well as insurance and reinsurance related to such import. To date, we do not believe that any of the current sanctions as in force limit our ability to operate in Crimea. Nevertheless, any new or expanded sanctions that may be imposed on Russian businesses operating in Crimea by the U.S., EU, or other countries may materially adversely affect us and any future plans we may have to expand in that region. In the ordinary course of our business, we may accept payments from consumers to or otherwise indirectly interact with certain entities that are the targets of U.S. sanctions. We operate primarily within the Russian financial system and, accordingly, many of our customers have accounts at banks in Russia. A number of Russian banks, including Bank Rossiya, SMP Bank, Investcapitalbank and Sobinbank have been designated by OFAC and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, Tempbank was designated due to its dealings with the Syrian government. U.S. sanctions may be extended to any person that U.S. authorities determine has materially assisted, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any sanctioned individuals or entities. For example, we may be associated with U.S.-designated banks due to us accepting payments for them from consumers in the ordinary course of our business, even though we may not have any direct contract relationships with them. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Government would not view such activities as meeting the criteria for U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we do not generally identify our customers where there is no express requirement to do so under Russian anti-money laundering legislation. Therefore, we are not always able to screen them against the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List published by OFAC and other sanctions lists. While we believe that our indirect interaction with Russian banks and potential interaction with designated individuals that may be subject to U.S. or EU economic and financial sanctions does not contravene any law, our business and reputation could be adversely affected if the U.S. government were to designate us as a blocked party and extend such sanctions to us. The executive orders authorizing the U.S. sanctions provide that persons may be designated if, inter alia, they materially assist, or provide financial, material, or technological support for goods or services to or in support of, blocked or designated parties. EU financial sanctions prohibit the direct and indirect making available of funds or economic resources to or for the benefit of sanctioned parties. Investors may also be adversely affected if we are so designated, resulting in their investment in our securities being prohibited or restricted. Furthermore, under those circumstances, some U.S. or EU investors may decide for legal or reputational reasons to divest their holdings in us or not to purchase our securities in the first place. We are aware of initiatives by U.S. governmental entities and U.S. institutional investors, such as pension funds, to adopt or consider adopting laws, regulations, or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with certain countries. There can be no assurance that the foregoing will not occur or that such occurrence will not have a material adverse effect on our share price. Even if we are not subjected to U.S. or other economic sanctions, our participation in the Russian financial system and indirect interaction with sanctioned banks and potential interaction with designated individuals may adversely impact our reputation among investors. There is also a risk that other entities with which we engage in business, or individuals or entities associated with them, are, or at any time in the future may become, subject to sanctions. The crisis in Ukraine is ongoing and could escalate. Were full-fledged hostilities to break out between Ukraine and Russia, they would likely cause significant economic disruption and calls from the Western countries for a comprehensive sanction regime that would seek to further isolate Russia from the world economy. Even the current level of ongoing civil insurrection in eastern Ukraine, if no resolution is forthcoming, may well lead to further strengthening and broadening of Ukraine-related sanctions. For example, there have been proposals to cut off Russia from the international SWIFT payment system, which would disrupt ordinary financial services in Russia and any cross-border trade. The potential repercussions surrounding the situation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine are unknown and no assurance can be given regarding the future of relations between Russia and other countries. Overall, the situation in Ukraine and Crimea remains uncertain and we cannot predict how the Ukrainian crisis will unfold or the impact it will have on our business or results of operations. Any or all of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Russian military support for the Syrian government could also contribute to a further deterioration in relations with Western governments, and result in the imposition of sanctions, which could materially adversely affect the value of investments in Russia, including our ADSs, as well as our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Another recent point of tension between Russia and U.S. and E.U. governments has been the Russian role in the Syrian crisis and its steadfast support for the government of Syria headed by President Bashar al-Assad. In September 2015, direct Russian military support for the Syrian government increased, with Russian military jets carrying out bombing missions on various anti-government rebel forces. According to press reports, Russian planes have carried out such missions not only against Islamic State rebel forces (which are also under attack by U.S.-led forces) but also against the rebel forces generally supported by Western countries. Western governments have generally called for the 23 Table of Contents immediate departure of President Assad, a position that Russia rejects. Concern has been expressed that these uncoordinated military missions of Russia, the United States and other forces in Syria could lead to confrontation. Russian military spokesmen have also recently stated that Russian volunteers might become involved in combat on the ground in Syria, further escalating the role of Russia in the conflict and heightening tensions. U.S. and EU officials have stated that they do not view increased Russian military support of the Syrian government as helpful in resolving the ongoing Syrian civil conflict. The U.S., the E.U. and a number of other states have imposed economic sanctions against various Syrian government officials and other Syrian nationals in light of the current civil conflict in Syria. A greater Russian role in the Syrian conflict might lead to further sanctions against Russia, including economic sanctions, and may be an additional factor in an overall deterioration in relations between Russia and the West. Accordingly, the Syrian crisis, for which no resolution appears imminent, and Russia’s apparent expanding role in supporting the Syrian government, could lead to international sanctions or other countermeasures by Western countries again Russia, and ultimately have a material adverse effect on Qiwi’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Know-your-client requirements established by Russian anti-money laundering legislation may adversely impact our transaction volumes. Our business is currently subject to know-your-client requirements established by Federal Law of the Russian Federation No. 115-FZ “On Combating the Legalization (Laundering) of Criminally Obtained Income and Funding of Terrorism”, dated August 7, 2001, as amended, or the Anti-Money Laundering Law. Based on the Anti-Money Laundering Law we distinguish three types of consumers based on their level of identification, being anonymous, identified through a simplified procedure and fully identified. The consumers who have not undergone any identification procedure are qualified as anonymous and are not allowed to contemplate transactions in excess of RUB15,000 as well as hold an electronic money account balance in excess of RUB15,000. The consumers who have undergone simplified identification procedure with the payment services provider are entitled to perform electronic money transactions in excess of RUB15,000 provided that at any point of time the account balance of electronic money does not exceed RUB60,000 and the total amount of transactions does not exceed RUB200,000 per month. Fully identified consumers are entitled to perform same type of electronic transfers as consumers identified through a simplified procedure but with increased threshold of the electronic money account balance of RUB600,000 and no limitations for the total transaction amount per month. The key difference between the simplified and the full identification procedures is that the simplified identification can be performed remotely. The remote identification requires the verification of certain data provided by consumers against public databases. Albeit a government order No.630 dated 8 July 2014 was enacted providing that public databases shall be set up by specific government authorities and access to them shall be granted to the third parties authorized to carry out identification of consumers, such databases are not yet up and running at scale and, to our knowledge, there is no work in progress on setting up such databases. Thus, current situation could cause us to be in violation of the identification requirements. In case we are enforced not to use the simplified identification procedure until the databases are fully running, it could negatively affect the number of our consumers and, consequently, our volumes and revenues. Political and governmental instability could adversely affect the value of investments in Russia. Political conditions in the Russian Federation were highly volatile in the 1990s, as evidenced by the frequent conflicts amongst executive, legislative and judicial authorities, which negatively impacted the business and investment climate in the Russian Federation. Over the past two decades the course of political and other reforms has in some respects been uneven and the composition of the Russian Government has at times been unstable. The Russian political system continues to be vulnerable to popular dissatisfaction, including dissatisfaction with the results of the privatizations of the 1990s, as well as to demands for autonomy from certain religious, ethnic and regional groups. Over the last 15 years, the Russian political system and the relationship between the President, the Russian Government and the Russian Parliament were generally stable. There have been, however, public protests in Moscow and other urban areas following elections for the State Duma in December 2011 alleging that the elections were subject to substantial electoral fraud. The Prime Minister at that time, Mr. Vladimir Putin has rejected calls by opposition leaders that the elections for the State Duma be annulled and re-run, but has instituted limited political reforms. Similar protests took place following the presidential elections in March 2012 which resulted in re-election of Mr. Vladimir Putin. Future changes in the Russian Government, the State Duma or the presidency, major policy shifts or eventual lack of consensus between the president, the Russian Government, Russia’s parliament and powerful economic groups could lead to political instability. Additionally, the potential for political instability resulting from the worsening of the economic situation in Russia and deteriorating standards of living should not be underestimated. Any such instability could negatively affect the economic and political environment in Russia, particularly in the short term. Shifts in governmental policy and regulation in the Russian Federation are less predictable than in many Western democracies and could disrupt or reverse political, economic and regulatory reforms. Any significant change in the Russian Government’s program of reform in Russia could lead to the deterioration of Russia’s investment climate that might limit our ability to obtain financing in the international capital markets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents The implementation of government policies in Russia targeted at specific individuals or companies could harm our business as well as investments in Russia more generally. The use of governmental power against particular companies or persons, for example, through the tax, environmental or prosecutorial authorities, could adversely affect the Russian economic climate and, if directed against us, our senior management or our major shareholders, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian authorities have recently challenged some Russian companies and prosecuted their executive officers and shareholders on the grounds of tax evasion and related charges. In some cases, the results of such prosecutions and challenges have been significant claims against companies for unpaid taxes and the imposition of prison sentences on individuals. There has been speculation that in certain cases these challenges and prosecutions were intended to punish, and deter, opposition to the government or the pursuit of disfavored political or economic agendas. There has also been speculation that certain environmental challenges brought recently by Russian authorities in the oil and gas as well as mining sectors have been targeted at specific Russian businesses under non-Russian control, with a view to bringing them under state control. More generally, some observers have noted that takeovers in recent years of major private sector companies in the oil and gas, metals and manufacturing sectors by state-controlled companies following tax, environmental and other challenges may reflect a shift in official policy in favor of state control at the expense of individual or private ownership, at least where large and important enterprises are concerned. Political and other conflicts create an uncertain operating environment that hinders our long-term planning ability and could adversely affect the value of our investments in Russia. Russia is a federation of 85 sub-federal political units, consisting of republics, territories, regions, cities of federal importance and autonomous regions and districts. The delineation of authority and jurisdiction among the members of the federation and the federal government is, in many instances, unclear and remains contested. Lack of consensus between the federal government and local or regional authorities often results in the enactment of conflicting legislation at various levels and may lead to further political instability. In particular, in the past, conflicting laws have been enacted in the areas of privatization, securities, corporate legislation, regulation of land use and licensing. Some of these laws and governmental and administrative decisions implementing them, as well as certain transactions consummated pursuant to them, have in the past been challenged in the courts in Russia and such challenges may occur in the future. Ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have on occasion given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflict and terrorist attacks in certain regions of Russia. For example, a military conflict in August 2008 between Russia and Georgia involving South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, resulted in significant overall price declines in the Russian stock exchanges and capital outflow from Russia. Such tensions, military conflict or terrorist activities could have significant political consequences, including the imposition of a state of emergency in some or all of Russia or heightened security measures, which could cause disruption to domestic commerce and exports from Russia, disrupt normal economic activity in Russia and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration of Russia’s relations with other countries could negatively affect the Russian economy and those of the nearby regions. Over the past several years, Russia has been involved in conflicts, both economic and military, involving other members of the CIS. On several occasions, this has resulted in the deterioration of Russia’s relations with other members of the international community, including the United States and various countries in Europe. Many of these jurisdictions are home to financial institutions and corporations that are significant investors in Russia and whose investment strategies and decisions may be affected by such conflicts and by worsening relations between Russia and its immediate neighbors. For example, relations between Ukraine and Russia, as well as Georgia and Russia, have recently been strained over a variety of issues. On March 21, 2014, President Putin signed legislation to recognize Crimea’s accession to, and status as part of, Russia. Since then, there has been continuing tensions between Russia and Ukraine, which were aggravated by the military conflict in Eastern Ukraine. The events in Ukraine and Crimea have prompted condemnation by members of the international community and have been strongly opposed by the EU and the United States, with a resulting material negative impact on the relationships between the EU, the United States and Russia. See “– The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition”. The emergence of new or escalated tensions between Russia and other CIS countries or other countries could negatively affect the Russian economy. This, in turn, may result in a general lack of confidence among international investors in the region’s economic and political stability and in Russian investments generally. Such lack of confidence may result in reduced liquidity, trading volatility and significant declines in the price of listed securities of companies with significant operations in Russia, including our ADSs, and in our inability to raise debt or equity capital in the international capital markets, which may affect our ability to achieve the level of growth to which we aspire. Crime and corruption could create a difficult business climate in Russia. The political and economic changes in Russia since the early 1990s have led, amongst other things, to reduced policing of society and increased lawlessness. In September 2006, the Deputy Chairman of the CBR was assassinated in what was allegedly a contract killing tied to his enforcement actions against corrupt Russian banking organizations. Organized crime, particularly property crimes in large metropolitan centers, has reportedly increased significantly since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. In addition, the Russian and international media have reported high levels of corruption in Russia. Press reports have also described instances in which government officials have engaged in selective investigations and prosecutions to further the interest of the government and individual officials or business groups. Although we adhere to a business ethics policy and internal compliance procedures to counteract the effects of crime and corruption, instances of illegal activities, demands of corrupt officials, allegations that we or our management have been involved in corruption or illegal activities or biased articles and negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents The Russian economy has fallen into recession in 2015, is suffering from renewed ruble depreciation, inflation and capital flight, and depends highly on the global pricing of crude oil, which has fallen significantly. Russian real GDP growth (period-on-period) slowed to 0.6% in 2014 and contracted by 3.7% in 2015, putting Russia in recession. 2015 was the worst year for the Russian economy since 2009, when Russian GDP fell 7.8%, according to Rosstat. Given the importance of the energy sector to the Russian economy, a principal reason for this downturn has been the decline of global oil prices. The price of the global benchmark Brent crude has fallen from U.S.$55/bbl on December 31, 2014 to U.S. $37.28/bbl on December 31, 2015, and is widely predicted not to significantly recover for some time to come. The international sanctions arising from the Ukraine crisis have also undercut confidence in the Russian economy and added to the cost of capital. The lack of confidence in the Russian economy led to a run on the ruble in late 2014 and further weakening in 2015: the average ruble/U.S. dollar exchange rate was RUB36.18/$1 for the third quarter of 2014, RUB46.96/$1 for the fourth quarter of 2014, RUB62.16/$1 for the first quarter of 2015, RUB52.63/$1 for the second quarter of 2015, RUB62.85/$1 for the third quarter of 2015 and RUB65.86/$1 for the fourth quarter of 2015, according to the CBR. This has been accompanied by rising inflation and a declining trend in real average wages. According to Rosstat, inflation was 11.4% in 2014 and 12.9% in 2015, while real average wages have been declining (with Rosstat’s preliminary data for 2015 indicating that the population’s real disposable income contracted by 4% in 2015 as compared to 2014). Against this backdrop, household consumption decreased by 10.1% in 2015, according to the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. Another indicator of lack of confidence in the Russian economy is capital flight, which was U.S.$56.9 billion in 2015, U.S.$153.0 billion in 2014 and U.S.$63.0 billion in 2013. There are concerns that the Russian government may seek to increase the tax burden of Russian companies or become stricter in its enforcement of existing tax legislation in the light of the shrinking state income due to decline in oil prices. The weakening of the Russian economy and the deterioration of Government finances (which rely significantly on taxes on oil revenues) has also led to international rating agencies to lower the Russian Federation credit ratings. Credit ratings for a number of Russian companies and banks have been lowered in the past months, another factor contributing to an increased cost of capital in the Russian economy. The ongoing deterioration of the Russian economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Economic instability in Russia could have an adverse effect on our business. The Russian economy has been adversely affected by the recent global financial and economic crisis. A continuation of the economic crisis could have a negative effect on the scale and profitability of our business. Any of the following risks, which the Russian economy has experienced at various points in the past, may have or have already had a significant adverse effect on the economic climate in Russia and may burden or have already burdened our operations: • significant declines in gross domestic product, or GDP; • high levels of inflation; • sudden price declines in the natural resource sector; • high and fast-growing interest rates; • unstable credit conditions; • international sanctions; • high state debt/GDP ratio; • instability in the local currency market; • a weakly diversified economy which depends significantly on global prices of commodities; • lack of reform in the banking sector and a weak banking system providing limited liquidity to Russian enterprises; • pervasive capital flight; • corruption and the penetration of organized crime into the economy; • significant increases in unemployment and underemployment; • the impoverishment of a large portion of the Russian population; • large number of unprofitable enterprises which continue to operate due to deficiency in the existing bankruptcy procedure; • prevalent practice of tax evasion; and • growth of the black-market economy. In the past few years, the Russian economy has been characterized by significant volatility in the debt and equity markets (which experienced significant declines in the second half of 2008), causing market regulators to temporarily suspend trading multiple times on the principal Russian securities exchanges, MICEX and the Russian Trading System (which subsequently merged in 2011, creating the Moscow Exchange). The Russian economy has also been characterized by significant reductions in foreign investment and sharp decreases in GDP. 26 Table of Contents As Russia produces and exports large quantities of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products and other commodities, the Russian economy is particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in oil and gas prices as well as other commodities prices, which historically have been subject to significant volatility over time, as illustrated by the recent decline in crude oil prices. Russian banks, and the Russian economy generally, were adversely affected by the global financial crisis. The Russian economy has fallen into a recession in 2015. There can be no assurance that any measures adopted by the Russian government to mitigate the effect of any financial and economic crisis will result in a sustainable recovery of the Russian economy. Current macroeconomic challenges, low or negative economic growth in the United States, China, Japan and/or Europe and market volatility may provoke or prolong any economic crisis. As an emerging economy, Russia remains particularly vulnerable to further external shocks. Events occurring in one geographic or financial market sometimes result in an entire region or class of investments being disfavored by international investors - so-called “contagion effects”. Russia has been adversely affected by contagion effects in the past, and it is possible that it will be similarly affected in the future by negative economic or financial developments in other countries. Economic volatility, or a future economic crisis, may undermine the confidence of investors in the Russian markets and the ability of Russian businesses to raise capital in international markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Russian economy and the Group’s results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, any further declines in oil and gas prices or other commodities pricing could disrupt the Russian economy and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The banking system in Russia remains underdeveloped. The banking and other financial systems in Russia are not well-developed or regulated, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretation and inconsistent application. The 1998 financial crisis resulted in the bankruptcy and liquidation of many Russian banks and almost entirely eliminated the developing market for commercial bank loans at that time. From April to July 2004, the Russian banking sector experienced further serious turmoil. As a result of various market rumors and certain regulatory and liquidity problems, several privately owned Russian banks experienced liquidity problems and were unable to attract funds on the inter-bank market or from their client base. Simultaneously, they faced large withdrawals of deposits by both retail and corporate customers. Several of these privately owned Russian banks collapsed or ceased or severely limited their operations. Russian banks owned or controlled by the government and foreign owned banks generally were not adversely affected by the turmoil. There are currently a limited number of creditworthy Russian banks (most of which are headquartered in Moscow). Although the CBR has the mandate and authority to suspend banking licenses of insolvent banks, many insolvent banks still operate. Many Russian banks also do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector in some respects still lags behind internationally accepted norms. Banking supervision is also often inadequate, as a result of which many banks do not follow existing CBR regulations with respect to lending criteria, credit quality, loan loss reserves, diversification of exposure or other requirements. The imposition of more stringent regulations or interpretations could lead to weakened capital adequacy and the insolvency of some banks. Prior to the onset of the 2008 global economic crisis, there had been a rapid increase in lending by Russian banks, which many believe had been accompanied by a deterioration in the credit quality of the loan portfolio of those banks. In addition, a robust domestic corporate debt market was leading Russian banks to hold increasingly large amounts of Russian corporate ruble bonds in their portfolios, which further deteriorated the risk profile of the assets of Russian banks. The global financial crisis of 2007-2008 has led to the collapse or bailout of some Russian banks and to significant liquidity constraints for others. Profitability levels of most Russian banks have been adversely affected. Indeed, the global crisis has prompted the government to inject substantial funds into the banking system amid reports of difficulties among Russian banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, the CBR has considerably increased the intensity of its supervision and regulation of the Russian banking sector. Historically, the revocation of banking licenses by the CBR has been a relatively rare event mostly occurring to local banks with little assets and little or no significance for the banking sector as a whole. Starting October 2013, however, the CBR has launched a campaign aimed at cleansing the Russian banking industry, revoking the licenses from an unusually high number of banks (including significant banks such as Master-Bank, Investbank, ProBusinessBank, Svyaznoy Bank, Vneshprombank and others) on allegations of money laundering, financial statements manipulation and other illegal activities, as well as inability of certain banks to discharge their financial obligations, which resulted in turmoil in the industry, instigated bank runs on a number of Russian credit institutions, and severely undermined the trust that the Russian population had with private banks. It could be expected that the difficulties currently faced by the Russian economy could result in further collapses of Russian banks, particularly those heavily exposed to the retail lending sector, as non-performing consumer loans have increased significantly and demand has shrunk due to more cautious consumer spending. According to the CBR, the level of past-due debt in the Russian banking sector has increased from 3.5% as of January 1, 2014 to 5.2% as of August 1, 2015. The CBR’s December 2014 RUB 127 billion bail-out of Trust Bank, Russia’s 22nd largest bank by assets, may be symptomatic of weaknesses in the Russian banking sector. With few exceptions (notably the state-owned banks), the Russian banking system suffers from weak depositor confidence, high concentration of exposure to certain borrowers and their affiliates, poor credit quality of borrowers and related party transactions. Current economic circumstances in Russia are putting stress on the Russian banking system. Combined with heightened interest rates – with the key interest rate of the CBR currently at 11% per annum (and rising as high as 17% over the course of 2014-2015) – these circumstances decrease the affordability of consumer credit, putting further pressure on overall consumer purchasing power. Our business is significantly affected by development in the Russian banking sector. First, we periodically hold funds in a number of Russian banks and rely on guarantees given by those banks to enhance our liquidity. Increased uncertainty in the Russian banking sector exposes us to additional counterparty risk and affects our liquidity. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from consumer payments in the banking industry in our Financial Services market vertical. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of one or more of these 27 Table of Contents banks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continuation or worsening of the banking crisis could decrease our transaction volumes, while the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the banks which hold our funds could prevent us from accessing our funds for several days. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Social instability could lead to labor and social unrest, increased support for renewed centralized authority, nationalism or violence. Failures to adequately address social problems have led in the past, and could lead in the future, to labor and social unrest. Labor and social unrest could have political, social and economic consequences, such as increased support for a renewal of centralized authority; increased nationalism, with support for re-nationalization of property, or expropriation of or restrictions on foreign involvement in the economy of Russia; and increased violence. Any of these could have an adverse effect on confidence in Russia’s social environment and the value of investments in Russia, could restrict our operations and lead to a loss of revenue, and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Russia has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. As a substantial portion of our expenses (including operating costs and capital expenditures) are denominated in rubles, the relative movement of inflation and exchange rates significantly affects our results of operations. The effects of inflation could cause some of our costs to rise. Russia has experienced high levels of inflation since the early 1990s. For example, inflation increased dramatically after the 1998 financial crisis, reaching a rate of 84.4% in that year. According to Rosstat, inflation in the Russian Federation was 6.5% in 2013, 11.4% in 2014 and 12.9% in 2015. Higher levels of inflation are expected in the future as Russian economy enters a difficult period. Certain of our costs, such as salaries and rent, are affected by inflation in Russia. To the extent the inflation causes these costs to increase, such inflation may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The immaturity of legal systems, processes and practices in the Russian Federation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with the legal systems of the Russian Federation include, to varying degrees, inconsistencies between and among laws, presidential decrees, edicts and governmental and ministerial orders and resolutions; conflicting local, regional, and federal rules and regulations; the lack of judicial or administrative guidance regarding the interpretation of the applicable rules; the untested nature of the independence of the judiciary and its immunity from political, social and commercial influences; the relative inexperience of jurists, judges and courts in interpreting recently enacted legislation and complex commercial arrangements; a high degree of unchecked discretion on the part of governmental authorities; alleged corruption within the judiciary and governmental authorities; substantial gaps in the regulatory structure due to delays in or absence of implementing regulations; bankruptcy procedures that are not well-developed and are subject to abuse; and a lack of binding judicial precedent. All of these weaknesses affect our ability to protect and enforce our legal rights, including rights under contracts, and to defend against claims by others. In addition, the recent merger of the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation, which used to oversee business disputes, into the Supreme Court, which used to only handle criminal cases and civil lawsuits, is viewed by some as having further aggravated these issues. The Russian judicial system is not immune from economic and political influences. The Russian court system is understaffed and underfunded, and the quality of justice, duration of legal proceedings, and performance of courts and enforcement of judgments remain problematic. Under Russian legislation, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions and are not recognized as a source of law. However, in practice, courts usually consider judicial precedents in their decisions. Enforcement of court judgments can in practice be very difficult and time-consuming in Russia. Additionally, court claims are sometimes used in furtherance of political and commercial aims. All of these factors can make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and make effective redress problematic in certain instances. The relatively recent enactment of many laws, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of political and economic reform and the rapid evolution of legal systems in ways that may not always coincide with market developments have resulted in legal ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies and, in certain cases, the enactment of laws without a clear constitutional or legislative basis. Legal and bureaucratic obstacles and corruption exist to varying degrees in each of the regions in which we operate, and these factors are likely to hinder our further development. These characteristics give rise to investment risks that do not exist in countries with more developed legal systems. The developing nature of the legal systems in Russia could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business. Governmental authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and at times appear to act selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and in a manner that is contrary to law or influenced by political or commercial considerations. Moreover, the Russian Government also has the power in certain circumstances, by regulation or government act, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary governmental actions have reportedly included denial or withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities also appear to have used common defects in matters surrounding share issuances and registration as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate the issuances or registrations or to void transactions, seemingly for political purposes. Moreover, selective, public criticism by Russian Government officials of 28 Table of Contents Russian companies has in the past caused the price of publicly traded securities in such Russian companies to sharply decline, and there is no assurance that any such public criticism by Russian Government officials in the future will not have the same negative affect. Standard & Poor’s has expressed concerns that “Russian companies and their investors can be subjected to government pressure through selective implementation of regulations and legislation that is either politically motivated or triggered by competing business groups”. In this environment, our competitors could receive preferential treatment from the government, potentially giving them a competitive advantage. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary governmental action, if directed at our operations in Russia, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian companies can be forced into liquidation on the basis of formal non-compliance with certain requirements of Russian law. Certain provisions of Russian law may allow a court to order the liquidation of a Russian legal entity on the basis of its formal non-compliance with certain requirements during formation, reorganization or during its operation. There have been cases in the past in which formal deficiencies in the establishment process of a Russian legal entity or non-compliance with provisions of Russian law have been used by Russian courts as a basis for the liquidation of a legal entity. Weaknesses in the Russian legal system create an uncertain legal environment, which makes the decisions of a Russian court or a governmental authority difficult, if not impossible, to predict. If any of our operating subsidiaries incorporated in Russia were subject to involuntary liquidation, such liquidation could lead to significant negative consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, under Russian corporate law, negative net assets calculated on the basis of the Russian accounting standards as of the end of the year following the second or any subsequent year of a company’s existence can serve as a basis for creditors to accelerate their claims and to demand payment of damages, as well as for a court to order the liquidation of the company upon a claim by governmental authorities. Many Russian companies have negative net assets due to very low historical value of property, plant and equipment reflected on their Russian accounting standards balance sheets. However, their solvency (defined as their ability to pay debts as they come due) is not otherwise adversely affected by such negative net assets. There are cases when courts have ordered mandatory liquidation of a company based on its negative net assets, though such company had continued to fulfill its obligations and had net assets in excess of the required minimum at the time of liquidation. Shareholder liability under Russian corporate law could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries. Russian law generally provides that shareholders in a Russian joint-stock company or participants in a limited liability company are not liable for that company’s obligations and risk only the loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one company (the “effective parent”) is capable of making decisions for another (the “effective subsidiary”). Under certain circumstances, the effective parent bears joint and several responsibility for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out such decisions. In addition, under Russian law, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary’s debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action of an effective parent. In these instances, the other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary’s losses from the effective parent that causes the effective subsidiary to take action or fail to take action knowing that such action or failure to take action would result in losses. We could be found to be the effective parent of our subsidiaries, in which case we would become liable for their debts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in Kazakhstan have become significant, and many of the risks we face in Kazakhstan are similar to those we face in Russia. In addition to Russia, our operations in Kazakhstan have become significant. In many respects, the risks we face in operating business in Kazakhstan are similar to those in Russia as set out above in “—Risks Relating to the Russian Federation and Other Markets in Which We Operate”. As is typical of an emerging market, Kazakhstan does not possess a well-developed business, legal and regulatory infrastructure and has been subject to substantial political, economic and social change. Our business in Kazakhstan is subject to Kazakhstan specific laws and regulations relating to areas of tax, anti-corruption, and foreign exchange controls. Such laws are often rapidly changing and are unpredictable. In addition, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, between the Russian ruble and the Kazakh tenge, which could affect our financial position and our profitability. Our failure to manage the risks associated with doing business in Kazakhstan could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Risks Relating to Taxation Weaknesses and changes in the Russian tax system could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of investments in Russia. We are subject to a broad range of taxes and other compulsory payments imposed at federal, regional and local levels, including, but not limited to, profits tax, VAT, corporate property tax and social contributions. Tax laws, such as the Russian Tax Code, have been in force for a short period relative to tax laws in more developed market economies, and the implementation of these tax laws is often unclear or inconsistent. Historically, the system of tax collection has been relatively ineffective, resulting in continual changes to the interpretation of existing laws. Although the quality of Russian tax legislation has generally improved with the introduction of the first and second parts of the Russian Tax Code, the possibility exists that Russia may impose arbitrary or onerous taxes and penalties in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large number of changes have been made to various chapters of the Russian Tax Code since their introduction. Since Russian federal, regional and local tax laws and regulations are subject to changes and some of the 29 Table of Contents sections of the Russian Tax Code relating to the aforementioned taxes are comparatively new, interpretation of these regulations is often unclear or non-existent. Also, different interpretations of tax regulations exist both among and within government bodies at the federal, regional and local levels, which creates uncertainties and inconsistent enforcement. The current practice is that private clarifications to specific taxpayers’ queries with respect to particular situations issued by the Russian Ministry of Finance are not binding on the Russian tax authorities and there can be no assurance that the Russian tax authorities will not take positions contrary to those set out in such clarifications. During the past several years the Russian tax authorities have shown a tendency to take more assertive positions in their interpretation of the tax legislation, which has led to an increased number of material tax assessments issued by them as a result of tax audits. In practice, the Russian tax authorities generally interpret the tax laws in ways that do not favor taxpayers, who often have to resort to court proceedings against the Russian tax authorities to defend their position. In some instances Russian tax authorities have applied new interpretations of tax laws retroactively. There is no established precedent or consistent court practice in respect of these issues. Furthermore, in the absence of binding precedent, court rulings on tax or other related matters by different courts relating to the same or similar circumstances may also be inconsistent or contradictory. Taxpayers often have to resort to court proceedings to defend their position against the tax authorities. The Russian tax authorities are increasingly taking a “substance over form” approach. While certain reductions in the rates, such as for profits tax, have been effected, it is expected that Russian tax legislation will become more sophisticated. The possibility exists that the Government may introduce additional revenue-raising measures. Although it is unclear how such measures would operate, the introduction of any such measures may affect the Group’s overall tax efficiency and may result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. There can be no assurance that the Russian Tax Code will not be changed in the future in a manner adverse to the stability and predictability of the tax system. These factors, together with the potential for state budget deficits, raise the risk of the imposition of additional taxes on us. The introduction of new taxes or amendments to current taxation rules may have a substantial impact on the overall amount of our tax liabilities. There is no assurance that we would not be required to make substantially larger tax payments in the future, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be deemed to receive unjustified tax benefits. In its decision No 138-0 dated July 25, 2001, the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, or the Constitutional Court, introduced the concept of “a taxpayer acting in a bad faith” without clearly stipulating the criteria for it. Similarly, this concept is not defined in Russian tax law. Nonetheless, this concept has been used by the tax authorities to deny, for instance, the taxpayer’s right to rely on the provisions of the tax law. The tax authorities and courts often exercise significant discretion in interpreting this concept in a manner that is unfavorable to taxpayers. On October 12, 2006, the Plenum of the Higher Arbitrazh Court of the Russian Federation, or the Higher Arbitrazh Court, issued Ruling No. 53, formulating the concept of an “unjustified tax benefit” which is defined in the ruling mainly by reference to specific examples of such tax benefits (e.g., tax benefits obtained as a result of a transaction that has no reasonable business purpose) which may lead to disallowance of their application. There is growing practice of the interpretation of this concept by the tax authorities or the courts and it is apparent that the tax authorities actively seek to apply this concept when challenging tax positions taken by taxpayers. Although the intention of Ruling No. 53 was to combat the abuse of tax law, based on cases brought to courts to date relating to Ruling No. 53, the tax authorities have started applying the “unjustified tax benefit” concept in a broader sense than may have been intended by the Higher Arbitrazh Court. In particular, we are aware of cases when this concept has been applied by the tax authorities in order to disallow benefits granted by double tax treaties. To date, in the majority of cases where this concept has been applied, the courts have ruled in favor of taxpayers, but it is not possible to determine whether the courts will follow these precedents in the future. In May 2015, a draft legislation introducing the concept of “unjustified tax benefit” into the Russian Tax Code passed the first reading in the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Subject to certain exceptions, the proposed legislation would prohibit taxpayers from deducting expenses for profits tax purposes and corresponding input VAT in cases where a business transaction was primarily aimed at tax avoidance, the primary documents were signed by unauthorized or unspecified persons, or the seller did not actually sell goods (work, services) or transfer any property rights. Although at the moment it is not clear how the final legislation will be worded it is anticipated that the introduction of these changes would allow the Russian tax authorities to have more arguments in disputes with taxpayers related to unjustified tax benefits. Currently the draft law is still pending amendments to be made by the State Duma of the Russian Federation. It is unclear if and when the concept of “unjustified tax benefit” is to be introduced into the Russian tax legislation. In addition to the usual tax burden imposed on Russian taxpayers, these conditions complicate tax planning and related business decisions. This uncertainty could possibly expose our group to significant fines and penalties and to enforcement measures, despite our best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden. Our Russian subsidiaries are subject to tax audits by Russian tax authorities which may result in additional tax liabilities. Tax returns together with related documentation are subject to review and investigation by a number of authorities, which are enabled by Russian law to impose substantial fines and interest charges. Generally, taxpayers are subject to tax audits for a period of three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which the decision to conduct the audit is taken. Nevertheless in some cases the fact that a tax period has been reviewed by the tax authorities does not prevent further review of that tax period, or any tax return applicable to that tax period. In addition, on July 14, 2005, the Constitutional Court issued a decision that allows the statute of limitations for tax penalties to be extended beyond the three-year term set forth in the Tax Code if a court determines that a taxpayer has obstructed or hindered a field tax audit. Moreover, amendments introduced to the first part of the Russian Tax Code which came into effect on January 1, 2007 provide for the extension of the three year statute of limitations for tax liabilities if the actions of the taxpayer create insurmountable obstacles for the tax audit. Because none of the relevant terms is defined in Russian law, the tax authorities may have broad discretion to argue that a taxpayer has “obstructed” or “hindered” or “created insurmountable obstacles” in respect of an audit, effectively linking any difficulty experienced in the 30 Table of Contents course of their tax audit with obstruction by the taxpayer and use that as a basis to seek tax adjustments and penalties beyond the three-year term. Therefore, the statute of limitations is not entirely effective. Tax audits may result in additional costs to our group if the relevant tax authorities conclude that our Russian entities did not satisfy their tax obligations in any given year. Such audits may also impose additional burdens on our group by diverting the attention of management resources. The outcome of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian transfer pricing legislation may require pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities with respect to all controlled transactions. Russian transfer pricing legislation became effective in the Russian Federation on January 1, 1999. This legislation allowed the tax authorities to make transfer-pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities in respect of certain types of transactions (“controlled” transactions). Special transfer pricing provisions were established for operations with securities and derivatives. However, Russian transfer pricing rules were vaguely drafted, generally leaving wide scope for interpretation by Russian tax authorities and courts. There was little guidance (although some court decisions are available) as to how these rules should be applied. Following the adoption of Federal Law No. 227-FZ “On amendments to certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation in connection with the improvement of pricing principles” dated July 18, 2011, the new transfer pricing rules became effective from January 1, 2012. Compared to the previous Russian transfer pricing rules, the new rules are more technically elaborate and, to a certain extent, better aligned with the international transfer pricing principles developed by the OECD. The list of the “controlled” transactions under the new transfer pricing legislation includes transactions with related parties and certain types of cross border transactions. The amendments have toughened considerably the previous transfer pricing rules, by, among other things, effectively shifting the burden of proving market prices from the tax authorities to the taxpayer and obliging the taxpayer to keep specific documentation. The new rules also permit taxpayers to enter into advance pricing agreements with the tax authorities; however, it is unclear how such agreements will operate in practice. Special transfer pricing rules continue to apply to transactions with securities and derivatives. It is currently difficult to evaluate what effect these new provisions may have on us. Currently the tax authorities perform tax audits of some Russian taxpayers with major focus on compliance with new transfer pricing legislation. It is therefore possible that the Group entities may become subject to transfer pricing tax audits by tax authorities in the near future. Due to the uncertainty and lack of established practice of application of the new Russian transfer pricing legislation the Russian tax authorities may challenge the level of prices applied by the Group under the “controlled” transactions (including certain intercompany transactions) and accrue additional tax liabilities. If additional taxes are assessed with respect to these matters, they may be material. ADS holders outside of Russia may be subject to Russian tax for income earned upon a sale, exchange or disposal of our ADSs. In the event that the proceeds from a sale, exchange or disposal of ADSs are deemed to be received from a source within Russia, a non-resident holder that is an individual may be subject to Russian tax in respect of such proceeds at a rate of 30% of the gain (such gain being computed as the sales price less any available documented cost deduction, including the acquisition price of the ADSs and other documented expenses, such as depositary expenses and brokers’ fees), subject to any available double tax treaty relief, provided that the necessary requirements to qualify for the treaty relief and the appropriate administrative requirements under the Russian tax legislation have been met. For example, holders of ADSs that are eligible for the benefits of the United States-Russia double tax treaty should generally not be subject to tax in Russia on any gain arising from the disposal of ADSs, provided that the gain is not attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed base that is or was located in Russia and/or provided that less than 50% of our fixed assets consist of immovable property situated in Russia (as defined in the treaty). Because the determination of whether 50% or more of our fixed assets consist of immovable property situated in Russia is inherently factual and is made on an on-going basis, and because the relevant Russian legislation and regulations are not entirely clear, there can be no assurance that immovable property situated in Russia does not currently, or will not, constitute 50% or more of our assets. If 50% or more of our assets were to consist of immovable property situated in Russia, the benefits of the United States-Russia double tax treaty may not be available to an ADS holder. Changes in the double tax treaty between Russia and Cyprus may significantly increase our tax burden. A company that is tax resident in Cyprus is subject to Cypriot taxation and qualifies for benefits available under the Cypriot tax treaty network, including the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty. We can provide no assurance that the double tax treaty will not be renegotiated or revoked. Adverse changes in, or the cancellation of, the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty may significantly increase our tax burden and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be deemed to be a tax resident outside of Cyprus. According to the provisions of the Cyprus Income Tax Law, a company is considered to be a resident of Cyprus for tax purposes if its management and control are exercised in Cyprus. The concept of “management and control” is not defined in the Cypriot tax legislation. However, the Cyprus Tax Authorities have published documents which indicate the minimum requirements that need to be satisfied for a company to be considered a tax resident of Cyprus (among others the place of incorporation of the company and its tax residency only in Cyprus, the place where the company’s executive bodies operate). If we are deemed not to be a tax resident in Cyprus (See “Item 10.E Taxation—Material Cypriot Tax Considerations—Tax residency”), we may not be subject to the Cypriot tax regime other than in respect of Cyprus sourced income and we may be subject to the tax regime of the country in which we are deemed to be a tax resident. 31 Table of Contents Further, we would not be eligible for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between Cyprus and other countries. If applicable Russian law is amended so that a company that is a tax resident in Cyprus can also be considered a tax resident of Russia, the tax treaty in force between Cyprus and Russia provides that such a company shall be deemed to be a tax resident of the state in which the place of effective management of the company is situated. A protocol to this treaty was signed in October 2010 and ratified by Cyprus in September 2011 and the Russian Duma in February 2012. This protocol provides that the process of determining the effective management in this case will be achieved through the two states endeavoring to determine the place of effective management by mutual agreement having regard to all relevant factors. Where the majority of our board of directors comprises tax residents or citizens of Russia, this may pose a risk that we, even if we are managed and controlled in Cyprus and therefore a tax resident in Cyprus, may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia or elsewhere. Such a permanent establishment could be subject to taxation of the jurisdiction of the permanent establishment on the profits allocable to the permanent establishment. If we are tax resident in a jurisdiction outside of Cyprus or are deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia or elsewhere, our tax burden may increase significantly, which, in turn, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to defense tax in Cyprus. Cypriot companies must pay a Special Contribution for the Defense Fund of the Republic of Cyprus, or the defense tax, at a rate of 17% on deemed dividend distributions to the extent that their ultimate beneficial owners are Cypriot tax residents. A Cypriot company that does not distribute at least 70% of its after tax profits within two years from the end of the year in which the profits arose, is deemed to have distributed this amount as a dividend two years after that year end. The amount of this deemed dividend distribution, subject to the defense tax, is reduced by any actual dividend paid out of the profits of the relevant year at any time up to the date of the deemed distribution and the resulting balance of profits will be subject to the defense tax to the extent of the appropriation of shares held in the company at that time by Cyprus tax residents. The profits to be taken into account in determining the deemed dividend do not include fair value adjustments to any movable or immovable property. The defense tax payable as a result of a deemed dividend distribution is paid in the first instance by the company which may recover such payment from its Cypriot shareholders by deducting the amount from an actual dividend paid to such shareholders from the relevant profits. To the extent that we are unable to recover this amount due to a change in shareholders or no actual dividend is ever paid out of the relevant profits, we will suffer the cost of this defense tax. Imposition of this tax could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to recover the tax from shareholders as described above. In September 2011, the Commissioner of the Inland Revenue Department of Cyprus issued Circular 2011/10, which exempted from the defense tax any profits of a company that is tax resident in Cyprus imputed indirectly to shareholders that are themselves tax resident in Cyprus to the extent that these profits are indirectly apportioned to shareholders who are ultimately not Cyprus tax residents. Depending upon the value and the nature of our assets and the amount and nature of our income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (a) 50% or more of the fair market value of our gross assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) for the taxable year produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. As a publicly traded foreign corporation we intend for this purpose to treat the aggregate fair market value of our gross assets as being equal to the aggregate value of our outstanding stock (“market capitalization”) plus the total amount of our liabilities and to treat the excess of the fair market value of our assets over their book value as a nonpassive asset to the extent attributable to our nonpassive income. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents and other passive assets used in our business, and because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization securities, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if the market price of our ADSs were to decrease significantly. The application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for such year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs, the U.S. investor might be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and to additional reporting obligations. We do not intend to provide the information necessary for the U.S. investor to make a qualified electing fund election with respect to our ADSs. See “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Adverse financial measures may be adopted in Cyprus in connection with its bailout. In June 2012, the government of Cyprus applied for financial assistance from the European Central Bank, the EU and the IMF, together referred to as the Troika. On April 12, 2013, the government of Cyprus and the Troika reached an agreement regarding the provision of a EUR 10 billion loan and related finance package to Cyprus, such loan and finance package being conditioned on Cyprus implementing a comprehensive economic adjustment program, or the Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program. The Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program included a scheme for the reorganization of the Cypriot banking system whereby Bank of Cyprus plc, or BoC, Cyprus’ largest bank and Cyprus Popular Bank Public Co Ltd, or Cyprus Popular Bank, Cyprus’ second largest bank were placed in resolution pursuant to applicable legislation, referred to herein as the Resolution Process. As a result of the Resolution Process, Cyprus Popular Bank was absorbed by BoC and deposit holders with credit balances in excess of EUR 100,000 (referred to herein as the Uninsured Deposits) held with Cyprus Popular Bank and BoC suffered significant losses. On July 30, 2013, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Cyprus announced that the BoC has been fully recapitalized by the overall conversion of 47.5% of Uninsured Deposits with the BoC into shares in BoC, thus bringing an end to the BoC’s Resolution Process. In March 2016 the Cyprus government successfully completed the implementation of the Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program which allowed Cyprus to exit the p.The measures implemented to date have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on holding companies, such as us, that do not have significant deposits in Cyprus banks or operations in Cyprus. However, further disruptions to the Cyprus banking system are possible and we cannot be certain that such disruptions will not adversely affect our financial condition or our shareholders who are not residents of Cyprus. 32 Table of Contents Our companies established outside of Russia may be exposed to taxation in Russia. Due to our international structure, we are subject to permanent establishment and transfer pricing risks in various jurisdictions in which we operate. We manage the related risks by looking at management functions and risks in various countries and level of profits allocated to each subsidiary. If additional taxes are assessed with respect to these matters, they may be material. The Russian Tax Code contains the concept of a permanent establishment in Russia as means for taxing foreign legal entities, which carry on regular entrepreneurial activities in Russia beyond preparatory and auxiliary activities. The Russian double tax treaties with other countries also contain a similar concept. If a foreign company is treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia, it would be subject to Russian taxation in a manner broadly similar to the taxation of a Russian legal entity, but only to the extent of the amount of the foreign company’s income that is attributable to the permanent establishment in Russia. However, the practical application of the concept of a permanent establishment under Russian domestic law is not well developed and so foreign companies having even limited operations in Russia, which would not normally satisfy the conditions for creating a permanent establishment under international norms, may be at risk of being treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia and hence being exposed to Russian taxation. Furthermore, the Russian Tax Code contains attribution rules, which are not sufficiently developed and there is a risk that the tax authorities might seek to assess Russian tax on the global income of a foreign company. Having a permanent establishment in Russia may also lead to other adverse tax implications, including challenging a reduced withholding tax rate on dividends under an applicable double tax treaty, potential effect on VAT and property tax obligations. There is also a risk that penalties could be imposed by the tax authorities for failure to register a permanent establishment with the Russian tax authorities. Recent events in Russia suggest that the tax authorities may more actively be seeking to investigate and assert whether foreign entities of our group, operate through a permanent establishment in Russia. Any such taxes or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of amendments had been made to the Russian tax legislation introducing, amongst others, the concepts of controlled foreign companies, corporate tax residency and beneficial ownership (Federal Law No. 376-FZ was signed by the Russian President on November 24, 2014 with its provisions applicable starting from January 1, 2015). Due to the lack of court and administrative practice, no assurance can be currently given as to how these amendments will be applied in practice and their exact nature, their potential interpretation by the tax authorities and the possible impact on us. We cannot rule out the possibility that, as a result of the introduction of changes to Russian tax legislation, certain of our companies established outside Russia might be deemed to be Russian tax residents, subject to all applicable Russian taxes. For more details see risks described in “Russian anti-offshore measures may have adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations”. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining lower rates of Russian withholding income tax envisaged by the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty for dividends distributed from Russia. For more details on transfer pricing risk see risks described in “Russian transfer pricing legislation may require pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities with respect to all controlled transactions”. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining lower rates of Russian withholding income tax envisaged by the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty for dividends distributed from Russia. Dividends paid by a Russian legal entity to a foreign legal entity are generally subject to Russian withholding income tax at a rate of 15%, although this tax rate may be reduced under an applicable double tax treaty. We intend to rely on the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty. The tax treaty allows reduction of withholding income tax on dividends paid by a Russian company to a Cypriot company to 10% provided that the following conditions are met: (i) the Cypriot company is a tax resident of Cyprus within the meaning of the tax treaty; (ii) the Cypriot company is the beneficial owner of the dividends; (iii) the dividends are not attributable to a permanent establishment of the Cypriot company in Russia; and (iv) the treaty clearance procedures are duly performed. This rate may be further reduced to 5% if the direct investment of the Cypriot company in a Russian subsidiary paying the dividends is at least €100,000. Although we will seek to claim treaty protection, there is a risk that the applicability of the reduced rate of 5% or 10% may be challenged by Russian tax authorities. As a result, there can be no assurance that we would be able to avail ourselves of the reduced withholding income tax rate in practice. Specifically, our Cypriot holding company may incur a 15% withholding income tax at source on dividend payments from Russian subsidiaries if the treaty clearance procedures are not duly performed at the date when the dividend payment is made. In this case we may seek to claim as a refund the difference between the 15% tax withheld and the reduced rate of 10% or 5% as appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that such taxes would be refunded in practice. Although we intend to rely on an applicable double tax treaty between Russia and the country where the relevant non-Russian subsidiary is resident, no assurance can be given that the reduced withholding tax rate would apply. A number of amendments had been made to the Russian tax legislation introducing, amongst others, the concept of beneficial ownership. Under this concept, double tax treaty benefits are only available to the recipient of income from Russian sources, if such recipient is the beneficial owner of the relevant income. Foreign entities that do not qualify as beneficial owners may not claim double tax treaty relief even if they are residents in a double tax treaty country. For these purposes, the beneficial owner is defined as a person holding directly, through its direct and/or indirect participation in other organizations or otherwise, the right to own, use or dispose of income, or the person on whose behalf another person is authorized to use and/or dispose of such income. In order to determine whether a foreign entity is a beneficial owner of income, it is necessary to take into account the functions performed by such foreign entity, as well as the risks borne by it. Entities are not recognized as beneficial owners of income if they have limited authorities to use or dispose income received from Russian sources, perform agency or other similar functions in favor of third parties, not taking any risks, or transfer such income (either partially or in full) to third parties that are not eligible to double tax treaty benefits. 33 Table of Contents Introduction of the concept of beneficial ownership may result in the inability of the foreign companies within our group to claim benefits under a double taxation treaty through structures which historically have benefited from double taxation treaty protection in Russia. This may be the case if the recipient of the income is not recognized as its beneficial owner, look-through approach cannot be applied or is challenged by the tax authorities. The imposition of additional tax liabilities as a result of the application of this rule to transactions carried out by us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more details see risks described in “—Russian anti-offshore measures may have adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations”. Russian anti-offshore measures may have adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Russian Federation, like a number of other countries in the world, is actively involved in discussion of measures against tax evasion through the use of low tax jurisdictions as well as aggressive tax planning structures. Initiatives such as the incorporation into Russian law of the concept of beneficial corporate ownership, tax residency of legal entities, the CFC Rules, conclusion of multilateral agreements for the exchange of information between the tax authorities of different countries have already been raised by the Government in the Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2013 and the planned period of 2014-2015 and were found in the latest draft of the Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2015 and the planned period of 2016-2017. The Russian President’s address to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation on December 12, 2013 focused extensively on the proposed anti-offshore measures in the Russian economy. As a response to this address, the Federal Law No. 376-FZ was signed by the Russian President on November 24, 2014 with its provisions applicable starting from January 1, 2015. This law introduced the following concepts into Russian tax legislation: (i) the concept of “controlled foreign companies” (the “CFC Rules”). Under the Russian CFC Rules, in certain circumstances, undistributed profits of foreign companies and non-corporate structures (e.g., trusts, funds or partnerships) domiciled in foreign jurisdictions, which are ultimately owned and/ or controlled by Russian tax residents (legal entities and individuals) will be subject to taxation in Russia. The Russian CFC Rules are being further developed. In particular, in June 2015, the President of the Russian Federation signed a federal law introducing technical amendments to the Russian CFC Rules, and another draft legislation with respect to the CFC Rules was published and passed the first reading in the State Duma of the Russian Federation in December 2015. In the meantime, certain provisions of the Russian CFC Rules are still ambiguous and may be subject to arbitrary interpretation by the Russian tax authorities; (ii) the concept of “corporate tax residency”. Under this concept, a foreign legal entity may be recognized as a Russian tax resident if such entity is in fact managed from Russia. When an entity is recognized as Russian tax resident it is obligated to register with the Russian tax authorities, calculate and pay Russian tax on its worldwide income and comply with other tax-related rules established for Russian entities. The new rules set principal and secondary criteria for determining the place of management (among other things, the place where the company’s executive body operates). However, there is some uncertainty as to how these criteria will be applied by the Russian tax authorities in practice; (iii) the concept of “beneficial ownership”. Under the Federal Law, a beneficial owner is defined as a person holding directly, through its direct and/or indirect participation in other organizations or otherwise, the right to own, use or dispose of income, or the person on whose behalf another person is authorized to use and/or dispose of such income. When determining the beneficial owner, the functions of a foreign person that is claiming the application of reduced tax rates under an applicable double tax treaty and the risks that such person takes should be analyzed. In accordance with the Federal Law, the benefits of a double tax treaty will not apply if a foreign person claiming such benefits has limited powers to dispose of the relevant income, fulfills intermediary functions without performing any other duties or taking any risks and paying such income (partially or in full) directly or indirectly to another person who would not be entitled to the same benefits should it received the income in question directly from Russia. The Federal Law gives the right to the tax agent (i.e., the payer of income) to require, in addition to a certificate of tax residency, a confirmation from the recipient of the income that it is the beneficial owner of the income, however, at the moment it is still not clear in what form such confirmation should be obtained. It is currently unclear how the Russian tax authorities will interpret and apply the new tax provisions and what will be the possible impact on us. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that we might be subject to additional tax liabilities because of these changes being introduced and applied to transactions carried out by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 4, 2014 the Russian President also signed Federal Law No. 325-FZ ratifying the multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters developed by the Council of Europe and the OECD, which the Russian Federation signed in 2011. Ratification of this Convention will enable the Russian Federation to receive tax information from all participating countries which include, among others, a number of offshore jurisdictions. The provisions of the Convention came into force for Russia starting from July 1, 2015. No assurance can currently be given as to the potential interpretation of the abovementioned changes into Russian tax legislation by the Russian tax authorities and the possible impact on us and our subsidiaries. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our ADSs The class B shares underlying the ADSs are not listed and may be illiquid. The class B shares underlying the ADSs are neither listed nor traded on any stock exchange, and we do not intend to apply for the listing or admission to trading of the class B shares on any stock exchange. As a result, a withdrawal of class B shares by a holder of ADSs, whether by election or due to certain other events will result in that holder obtaining securities that are significantly less liquid than the ADSs and the price of those class B shares may be discounted as a result of such withdrawal. Our ADSs trade on more than one market and this may result in increased volatility and price variations between such markets. Our ADSs trade on both Nasdaq and MOEX. Trading in our ADSs on these markets occurs in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and Russian rubles on MOEX) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Russia). The trading prices of our ADSs on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. The liquidity of trading in our ADSs on MOEX is limited. This may impair your ability to sell your ADSs on MOEX at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. In addition, trading of a small number of ADSs on that market could adversely impact the price of our ADSs significantly and could, in turn, impact the price in the United States. ADSs are completely fungible between both markets. Any decrease in the trading price of our ADSs on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ADSs on the other market. Additionally, as there is no direct trading or settlement between the two stock markets, the time required to move the ADSs from one market to another may vary and there is no certainty of when ADSs that are moved will be available for trading or settlement. Future sales of ADSs or ordinary shares by significant shareholders could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If any of our significant shareholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our ADSs or ordinary shares, including both class A shares and class B shares, in the market, the trading price of our ADSs could decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of these ADSs or ordinary shares or the availability of these ADSs or ordinary shares for sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, we have outstanding 60,420,306 ordinary shares, including those represented by ADSs. Of these, 44,886,005 ordinary shares are immediately freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. In addition, we have granted registration rights to Saldivar Investments Limited, Sergey A. Solonin, Andrey N. Romanenko, Igor N. Mikhaylov, E1 Limited and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., who collectively own 100% of our class A shares and approximately 77.6% of the voting power of our issued share capital as of the date of this annual report. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of the ADSs. Investors in our ADSs may have limited recourse against us, our directors and executive officers because we conduct our operations outside the United States and most of our current directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Our presence outside the United States may limit investors’ legal recourse against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Cyprus. Almost all of our current directors and senior officers reside outside the United States, principally in the Russian Federation. Substantially all of our assets and the assets of our current directors and executive officers are located outside the United States, principally in the Russian Federation. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon our company or its directors and executive officers or to enforce U.S. court judgments obtained against our company or its directors and executive officers in Russia, Cyprus or other jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions under the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States, liabilities predicated upon US securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments in civil and commercial matters. These limitations may deprive investors of effective legal recourse for claims related to their investment in our ADSs. Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights in relation to future issuances of class B shares. In order to raise funding in the future, we may issue additional class B shares, including in the form of ADSs. Generally, existing holders of shares in Cypriot public companies are entitled by law to pre-emptive rights on the issue of new shares in that company (provided that such shares are paid in cash and the pre-emption rights have not been disapplied). Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for class B shares represented by ADSs unless applicable securities law requirements are adhered to or an exemption from such requirements is available. In the United States, we may be required to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to implement pre-emptive rights. We can give no assurance that an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act would be available to enable U.S. holders of ADSs to exercise such pre-emptive rights and, if such exemption is available, we may not take the steps necessary to enable U.S. holders of ADSs to rely on it. Accordingly, our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights on future issuances of shares, and, as a result, their percentage ownership interest in us would be reduced. In April 2013, our shareholders authorized the disapplication of pre-emptive rights for a period of five years from May 8, 2013, the date of the closing of our initial public offering, in connection with the issue of up to an additional 52,000,000 class B shares, including in the form of ADSs. Any issuances of class B shares for cash exceeding this amount during this five-year period would require disapplication of pre-emptive rights by the class B shareholders at such time. However, a Cyprus court or regulatory authority could determine that such waiver should not apply to an issuance of class B shares even if it is within such amount. If for any reason the disapplication of these rights proves to be ineffective or class B shareholders do not approve any further disapplication of pre-emptive rights that may be required, our ADS holders’ ability to participate in future issuances of class B shares, including in the form of ADSs, may be limited. Furthermore, rights offerings are difficult to implement effectively under the current U.S. securities laws and our ability to raise capital in the future may be compromised if we need to do so via a rights offering in the United States. 35 Table of Contents ADS holders have no legal interest in the underlying class B shares. ADS holders acquire the beneficial, and not the legal, interest in the underlying class B shares, which the depositary holds on trust for them, under the terms of the deposit agreement. The intended effect of the trust is to ring-fence the class B shares in the hands of the depositary by conferring a property interest on ADS holders as beneficiaries. The interest of the ADS holders as beneficiaries in trust assets, which are the class B shares, is indirect, in the sense that in the normal course they do not have any direct recourse to the class B shares nor do they have any direct right of action against us. ADS holders may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. 36 Table of Contents 