D. Risk Factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks relate to our operational processes, while others relate to our business environment. It is important to understand the nature of these risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it may materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The payment services industry is highly competitive, and we have a number of competitors that are larger and have greater financial and other resources. The payment services industry is highly competitive, and our continued growth depends on our ability to compete effectively. In the countries in which we operate, we face competition from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. These competitors include retail banks, non-traditional payment service providers (such as retailers and mobile network operators, or MNOs), traditional kiosk and terminal operators and electronic payment system operators, as well as other companies which provide various forms of payment services, including electronic payment and payment processing services. Competitors in our industry seek to differentiate themselves by features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network size, accessibility, hours of operation, reliability and price. A significant number of our competitors have greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we have, operate robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. In Russia, we face significant competition from major retail banks for our services. Our primary competitors include Sberbank, Russia’s largest retail bank that is majority-owned by the Russian state, and Alfa-Bank, one of the leading privately owned Russian retail banks, both of which have electronic banking systems and large retail networks. Some retail banks are currently developing their own networks of kiosks and terminals and various electronic payment products. Sberbank, for example, has stated that its strategic goals include the promotion of alternative banking channels, such as kiosks, internet banking and mobile banking, and actively develops its online payment services capabilities, including through Yandex.Money, its joint venture with Yandex, a major electronic payment system operator in Russia. Sberbank has access to significant financial resources and an extensive nationwide network of branches that can serve as a platform for the expansion of its kiosk business. Sberbank is the largest processor of utility bill payments, which constitute a very significant portion of overall consumer spending in our industry. These factors may give Sberbank a substantial competitive advantage over us if it pursues its strategy of establishing a broad kiosk network, internet banking and mobile banking businesses. Our competitors also include the Russian Federal State Unitary Enterprise Postal Service, or Russian Post, which offers certain payment services. Russian Post’s geographical penetration is more dispersed than our physical distribution network (i.e. our kiosks and terminals). As a state-sponsored institution, we believe that it is able to provide payment services at significantly lower prices than we are able to match profitably. If any of our competitors with a broad network of branches, including Sberbank, Alfa-Bank or Russian Post, were to establish or actively pursue a kiosk and terminal business, we would lose many of our consumers and our margins could be harmed. The geographical footprint of some of our competitors could also be leveraged by them to gain or increase a market share in the money transfers business. For instance, in November 2014, it was reported that the Russian Post launched a card-to-cash service which allows consumers to remit money from their cards to any post office throughout Russia. We also face competition from non-traditional payment service providers that have substantial financial resources, such as major telecommunication and media devices retailers, including Euroset and Svyaznoy, as well as MNOs, in particular the Russian “Big Three” MNOs, MegaFon, VimpelCom and MTS. We also compete against some directly comparable businesses, such as traditional kiosk and terminal operators, including OJSC Cyberplat, and OJSC Elecsnet, and electronic payment system operators (primarily Yandex.Money and WebMoney). New competitors may penetrate the Russian electronic payment market as well, including established international players such as MoneyGram, Google, Samsung (which acquired an electronic payments company LoopPay in February 2015) or Apple (which recently introduced its own payments service Apple Pay in September 2014). In 2013, PayPal obtained a Non-Banking Credit Institution license from the CBR in order to conduct business in Russia, which enabled its customers to effect transactions in Russian rubles. In November 2013, Russia’s premier online bank Tinkoff Credit Systems announced the launch of its own electronic wallet system, called Tinkoff Mobile Wallet. Most recently, in November 2014, the state-owned telecommunications company Rostelekom announced its plans to create its own payment system. Additionally, some of our competitors are currently our major merchants (the Big Three MNOs) or our agents (for example, Svyaznoy), and are responsible for a substantial amount of our business. If we are unable to compete successfully for consumers, agents and merchants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We have experienced a decline in our average net revenue yield in the past and our continued growth will depend on being able to continue to increase our payment volume and to introduce new fees and value added services. One of the key measures we use to assess our financial performance is our average net revenue yield, which we calculate by dividing adjusted net revenue by the total payment volume of the transactions we process. Our average net revenue yield increased over the three-year period ended December 31, 2014. However, we faced a decline in our average net revenue yield for certain merchant categories in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In particular, in 2011 our average net revenue yield for Telecom transactions went down, which was driven by a decline in merchant fees from our larger retail merchants, in particular the Big Three MNOs, who have been seeking to reduce costs. In response to the decline in merchant fees, we introduced consumer fees that are collected by our agents. Between November 2013 and January 2014, in response to a significant decrease in merchant fees by one of the Big Three MNOs, we introduced consumer fees for mobile and broadband internet top-ups through Visa Qiwi Wallet to certain operators. In June 2014, we eliminated those fees, which was reflected in decreased payment net revenue yield for Telecom services in the second half of 2014. However, we still collect consumer fees from Visa Qiwi Wallet users for a variety of other transactions. The shift from merchant-paid processing fees to consumer-paid processing fees presents us with a number of challenges. Since consumers, and not merchants, increasingly bear additional cost of using our network, we must continue to ensure that our payment processing system provides a more convenient and attractive option than alternative systems that may not require payment by the consumer of a processing fee. Retail banks and various payment service providers are constantly developing low to zero-commission payment channels for their consumers. To attract consumers, we also offer certain services on a commission-free basis, such as peer-to-peer transfers within Visa Qiwi Wallet. Despite our efforts, consumers may still choose to use other payment systems, even if those systems do not offer the convenience that we do, because they charge lower fees. In addition, because agents are able to switch between different payment processing systems, we may face additional pressure to reduce the fees we receive from consumers due to increased competition from other payment service providers. We may not be able to continue to offset the decline in merchant fees or maintain current levels of profitability by introducing new consumer fees or increasing existing fees. As a result, in order to continue to stabilize our average net revenue yield and drive our profitability, we must increase our payment volume at a rate faster than the decline in average net payment processing fees. Our ability to maintain and grow our profitability also depends in part on the development and enhancement of our services offering through the addition of new value added services, which we view as another means to offset the decline in merchant fees. In particular, a significant portion of our revenue from value added services is derived from advertising, and our advertising revenue has almost doubled between 2011 and 2013. In 2014, however, we experienced a sharp decline in advertising revenue which went down almost by half, primarily driven by difficulties in Russian banking system, since financial institutions were our largest advertisers. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in Russia has overall led Russian businesses to decrease their advertising spend which puts at risk our ability to substitute financial institutions with other types of advertisers in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our payment volumes or that any value added services we introduce will be profitable. Continued decline in our average net revenue yield as a result of these or other factors would cause our financial condition and results of operations to deteriorate. We are subject to the economic risk and business cycles of our merchants and agents and the overall level of consumer spending. The payment services industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. Economic factors such as employment levels, business conditions, energy and fuel costs, interest rates, inflation rate and the strength of the ruble against foreign currencies (in particular the U.S. Dollar) could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using our services or consumers spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A further weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on our merchants, as well as consumers who purchase products and services using our payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the market segments that represent a larger portion of our payment processing volume. In addition, these factors could force some of our merchants and/or agents to liquidate their operations or go bankrupt, or could cause our agents to reduce the number of their locations or hours of operation, resulting in reduced transaction volumes. We also have a certain amount of fixed costs, including salaries and rent, which could limit our ability to adjust costs and respond quickly to changes affecting the economy and our business. 10 Table of Contents Russia’s economy has been facing significant challenges recently due to the combined effect of the ongoing crisis in Eastern Ukraine, the economic and financial sanctions imposed in connection with it on certain Russian companies and individuals, as well as against entire sectors of Russian economy, by the U.S., EU, Canada and other countries, a steep decline in oil prices, a record weakening of the Russian ruble against the U.S. Dollar, a lack of access to financing for Russian issuers, capital flight and a general climate of political and economic uncertainty. See “– Economic instability in Russia could have an adverse effect on our business” and “– The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition”. The Russian economy is widely predicted to contract in 2015, with GDP expected to fall by 3-5%, and continue to contract in 2016, marking a sustained economic recession. In particular, the Russian Ministry of Economic Development in February 2015 predicted Russian GDP to contract by 3% in 2015; the International Monetary Fund in January 2015 predicted Russian GDP to contract by 3% in 2015 and 1% in 2016. According to the Russian Federal State Statistics Service, or Rosstat, inflation has reached 11.4% in 2014, the highest level since 2008. Many analysts expect this upward trend to continue into 2015 (the Russian Ministry of Economic Development in February 2015 predicted inflation at 17-17.5% for the first quarter of 2015 year-on-year and for the year 2015 at 12-12.4% with food inflation expected to be greater). At the same time, the population’s purchasing power is decreasing due to the weakening of the ruble, basic necessities such as food products and utilities are becoming more expensive, and consumer confidence is declining, according to the Russian Consumer Confidence Overall Index reported by Rosstat. A prolonged economic slowdown in Russia could have a significant negative effect on consumer spending in Russia and, accordingly, on our business. The extent of the current slowdown, and if that were to result in a full scale banking crisis, is yet to be assessed. We expect our loan repayment and money remittance volumes, and possibly our e-commerce payments volumes, to be particularly affected, due to a shrinking banking sector, increasing unemployment and cautious consumer spending. Moreover, loan repayment volumes and our corresponding revenue from Financial services may be affected by the restrictively high Central Bank’s key rate as well as growing bad debt provisions of Russian banks, which together result in lack of access for consumers to refinancing of existing loans and banks’ cautious reluctance to grow their loan portfolios. Further adverse changes in economic conditions in Russia could adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the rates of the fees levied by our agents on consumers. Our agents pay us an agreed fee using a portion of the fees levied by them on consumers. The fee paid to us by the agent is based on a percentage of the value of each transaction that we process. However, in most cases the amount of fees levied by an agent on a consumer for each particular transaction is determined by such agent at its own discretion. We usually do not cap the amount of such fees or otherwise control it. We believe that the fees set by our agents are market-driven, and that our interests and our agents’ interests are aligned with a view to maintaining fees at a level that would simultaneously result in our agents’ profitability and customer satisfaction. However, we can provide no assurance that our agents will not raise fees to a level that will adversely affect the popularity of our products among consumers. At the same time, if we are forced to cap customer fees to protect the strength of our brand or otherwise, we may lose a significant number of agents, which would reduce the penetration of our physical distribution network. In limited instances, we have introduced such caps at the request of our merchants. No assurance can be made that this trend will not increase. Material increases in customer fees by our agents or the imposition of caps on the rates of such fees by us could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent public registered accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting during our 2011 audit, and we can provide no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our internal controls relating to preparation of our financial statements have not kept pace with the changes in and increasing scope and volume of our business. Our financial reporting function and system of internal controls is less developed in certain respects than those of payment service providers that operate in more developed markets and may not provide our management with as much or as accurate or timely information. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has defined a material weakness as “a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected.” In connection with their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal controls with respect to our financial statement closing process. The material weakness related primarily to the number of dedicated IFRS-qualified personnel and controls over accounting for non-routine transactions and complex estimates. This material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of the procedures performed by our independent registered public accounting firm in their audit of our 2011 annual consolidated financial statements, and did not affect the relevant report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our annual consolidated financial statements included herein. 11 Table of Contents To address the material weakness that our independent registered accountants identified, we developed and implemented a plan that included implementing greater controls over communication, approval and accounting for non-routine transactions and complex estimates, as well as additional management review controls. We also hired an external consultant to advise us on introducing changes to our internal control over financial reporting and to participate in management review of the financial statements and related supporting financial information. In addition, we recruited additional qualified personnel with relevant experience in IFRS accounting, reporting and auditing and are working with external consultants to improve our internal controls. As a result of our efforts we remediated the related material weakness as of December 31, 2012. During the course of the financial statement close process for fiscal year 2014, our management identified several significant deficiencies which, in aggregate, do not represent a material weakness. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. We can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could lead to a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may result in a decline in the market price of our ADSs. If consumer confidence in our business deteriorates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is built on consumers’ confidence in our brands, as well as our ability to provide fast, reliable payment services, including electronic payment and payment processing services. As a consumer business, the strength of our brand and reputation are of paramount importance to us. A number of factors could adversely affect consumer confidence in our brand, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. These factors include: • any regulatory action or investigation against us; • any significant interruption to our systems and operations; and • any breach of our security system or any compromises of consumer data. In addition, we are largely dependent on our agents and franchisees to which we license our products to maintain the reputation of our brand. Despite the measures that we put in place to ensure their compliance with our performance standards, our lack of control over their operations may result in the low quality of service of a particular agent or franchisee being attributed to our brand, negatively affecting our overall reputation. Furthermore, negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our agents and/or merchants are implicated in fraudulent transactions, irrespective of the accuracy of such publicity or its connection with our current operations or business, could harm our reputation. Any event that hurts our brand and reputation among consumers as a reliable payment services provider could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in the use of cash as a means of payment may result in a decline in the use of our kiosks and terminals and Visa Qiwi Wallet. Substantially all of our business is in emerging markets, including Russia and Kazakhstan, where a substantial part of the population relies on cash payments, rather than credit and debit card payments or electronic banking. We believe that consumers making cash payments are more likely to use our kiosks and terminals as well as Visa Qiwi Wallet, which is most commonly reloaded via kiosks and terminals, than where alternative payment methods are available. As a result, we believe that our profitability depends on the use of cash as a means of payment. There can be no assurance that over time, the prevalence of cash payments will not decline as a greater percentage of the population in emerging markets adopts credit and debit card payments and electronic banking. The shift from cash payments to credit and debit card payments and electronic banking could reduce our market share and payment volumes and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to expand into new geographical markets, or develop our existing international operations successfully, which could limit our ability to grow and increase our profitability. Our long-term strategy includes entering into new geographical markets and developing our existing operations outside of Russia. Our expansion into new geographical markets and further development of our international operations depend on our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular needs of each local market or country. We may not have adequate financial, technological or personnel and management resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these markets. We may not be able to establish partnerships with merchants or to attract agents to invest in new geographical markets to strengthen our international operations. If we fail to enter new markets or countries and to further develop our international operations, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, we may expand into new geographical markets in which we may not have any previous operating experience. We operate in an industry that is often subject to significant regulation, and our lack of familiarity with the regulatory landscape in new markets may result in our running into unanticipated problems or delays in obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals and licenses. We may not be able to successfully expand in such markets due to our lack of experience. Moreover, we may not be able to execute our strategy in our existing international operations successfully, which may result in additional losses or limit our growth prospects. In addition, expanding internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: • greater difficulty in managing foreign operations; • expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering consumers the ability to transact in major currencies; • higher labor costs and problems integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture; • laws and business practices that favor local competitors; • multiple and changing laws, tax regimes and government regulations; • foreign currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; and • differing intellectual property laws. In addition, our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations or unfavorable interpretation by authorities of these regulations could harm our business. In particular, we are exposed to the risk of being deemed to have permanent establishment in a specific country and transfer pricing risks which could result in additional tax liability. If we are not able to manage these and multiple other risks associated with global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry, the number of which has increased significantly in recent years. We are subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and financing criminal activity and terrorism, financial services regulations, payment services regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, advertising laws and privacy and data protection laws and therefore experience periodic investigations by various regulatory authorities in connection with the same, which may sometimes result in monetary or other sanctions being imposed on us. Further, these laws and regulations vary significantly from country to country. Many of these laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and are often unclear and inconsistent with other applicable laws and regulations, including across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging and increasing our related operating costs 13 Table of Contents and legal risks. In particular, there has been increased public attention and heightened legislation and regulations regarding money laundering and terrorist financing. We sometimes have to make significant judgment calls in applying anti-money laundering legislation and risk being found in non-compliance with it, particularly in relation to its mandatory client identification requirements, if, for example, we process payments made by our consumers from their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts for amounts in excess of the thresholds imposed by anti-money laundering legislation without the required client identification. Although we believe our client identification practices to be in accordance with the law, the Russian regulators may view them as being non-compliant and impose fines and other sanctions on us. Recently, our Qiwi Wallet operations in Kazakhstan have become subject to financial monitoring legislation, imposing certain client identification requirements on us. In addition, there is a draft law under consideration of the Kazakh legislature that seeks to introduce a more comprehensive regulatory regime for the payments market in general. This draft law, if adopted in its current form, would confer certain additional compliance, reporting and other obligations and liabilities upon certain of our subsidiaries. We are currently continuing to assess the potential impact of this new legislation on our business. Since such legislation is nascent and little tested in practice, we may become subject to fines and other penalties if the measures we undertake in response are viewed as insufficient by the relevant regulators. If local authorities in Russia, Kazakhstan or other countries choose to enforce specific interpretations of the applicable legislation that differ from ours, we may be found to be in violation and subject to penalties or other liabilities. This could also limit our ability in effecting such payments going forward and may increase our cost of doing business. In some jurisdictions where we operate, there is currently little or virtually no legislation addressing electronic payments, and no assurance can be made that if such legislation is adopted it will be beneficial to our business. For instance, if a statutory cap is imposed on the fees that can be charged to the consumers using our kiosks and terminals, it could significantly reduce our margins. From time to time, proposals are submitted to the Russian State Duma to cap the amount of such fees. There can also be no assurance that the mandatory client identification requirements under the anti-money laundering legislation will not change further in a manner adverse to our business, for example, through making the identification process more burdensome or through lowering the thresholds for transactions which non-identified customers or customers that only underwent the simplified identification process can perform (see “Regulation”), which could result in lower payment volumes for us. In addition, there is significant uncertainty regarding future legislation on taxation of electronic payments in most of the countries in which we operate, including in respect of the place of taxation. Subsequent legislation and regulation and interpretations thereof, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose us to increased costs, liability and reputational damage that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to complete or integrate successfully any potential future acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures. From time to time, we have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions, partnerships or joint ventures on an on-going basis, some of which may be material. At any time, including currently, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations or diligence evaluations with respect to possible acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures or may have entered into non-binding documents in relation to such transactions. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue our disciplined approach to identifying, executing and integrating strategic acquisitions. Potential future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may pose significant risks to our existing operations if they cannot be successfully integrated. These projects would place additional demands on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources, create operational complexity requiring additional personnel and other resources and require enhanced control procedures. In addition, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire or with which we form a partnership or joint venture. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. Moreover, even if we were successful in integrating newly acquired assets, expected synergies or cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected benefits to us from such transactions. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. Additionally, when making acquisitions it may not be possible for us to conduct a detailed investigation of the nature of the assets being acquired due to, for instance, time constraints in making the decision and other factors. We may become responsible for additional liabilities or obligations not foreseen at the time of an acquisition. In addition, in connection with any acquisitions, we must comply with various antitrust requirements. It is possible that perceived or actual violations of these requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement action or result in us not receiving all necessary approvals in order to complete a desired acquisition. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our 14 Table of Contents stockholders. To the extent we pay the purchase price with proceeds from the incurrence of debt, it would increase our level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations. Our competitors may be willing or able to pay more than us for acquisitions, which may cause us to lose certain acquisitions that we would otherwise desire to complete. All of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. We have grown rapidly in recent years and need to implement enhanced compliance processes, procedures and controls with respect to the rules and regulations that apply to our business. Our business has grown and developed rapidly in recent years and we are continuing to realign our compliance function with the size of our business. In light of the fact that we are a highly regulated business that processes large volumes of payments, we need to implement enhanced processes, procedures and controls in order to provide reasonable assurance that we are operating in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. In particular, the Russian anti-money laundering laws to which we and Qiwi Bank are subject contain numerous requirements with respect to identification of clients, and documentation and reporting of transactions subject to mandatory control and other suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other laws concerning our international operations. Similar legislation in other jurisdictions contains similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We have implemented policies and procedures and internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that we, our employees, distributors and other intermediaries comply with the anti-corruption laws to which we are subject. However, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any policies, procedures and internal controls, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the policies, procedures and internal controls. There can be no assurance that such policies or procedures or internal controls will work effectively at all times or protect us against liability under these or other laws for actions taken by our employees, distributors and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. We have neither an established operating history nor proven management experience in establishing and maintaining, over the long term, the required compliance processes, procedures and controls. As such, our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance initiatives. Moreover, increased rules and regulations since becoming a publicly traded company have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. Our compliance with the FCPA and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional staff with appropriate public company experience and technical knowledge. Our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to handle large and growing payment volumes and amounts of consumer funds, as well as comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to manage consumer funds or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the imposition of fines, harm our reputation and significantly diminish use of our products. In addition, if we are not in compliance with anti-corruption laws and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities and/or officials (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and change in our industry and provide new services to our clients, the use of our services could decline, reducing our revenues. The payment services industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the entrance of more established market players seeking to expand into these businesses. In order to remain competitive, we continually seek to expand the services we offer and to develop new projects, including, for example, the development of remote banking and loyalty programs. These projects carry risks, such as delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of customer acceptance. In our industry, these risks are acute. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our services less desirable, or even obsolete, to consumers. In addition, if alternative payment mechanisms become widely available, substituting our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be unable to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services. Our development efforts could result in increased costs and we could also experience a loss in business that could reduce our earnings or could cause a loss of revenue if promised new services are not timely delivered to our clients, 15 Table of Contents are not able to compete effectively with our competitors’ or do not perform as anticipated. In order to remain competitive in an innovative industry such as ours, we have to make investments in start-up companies or undertake large research and development initiatives. In January 2013, we launched Qiwi Venture, an internal department of our company responsible for identifying start-ups which offer innovative solutions complementary to our business and making investments into them. The threshold for such investments is initially set at U.S. $1 million per project for the first investment stage with no cap for total investments. If our investments in start-up companies or research and development initiatives do not yield the expected results, we may lose money, time and effort invested. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our systems and our third party providers’ systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of numerous systems, including our computer systems, software and telecommunications networks, as well as the data centers that we lease from third parties. Our systems and operations, or those of our third party providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, flood, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, vendor failure, unauthorized entry, improper operation and computer viruses. In addition, because both of our data centers used for processing payments are located in the city of Moscow, a catastrophic event affecting the city of Moscow may result in the loss of both data centers. Substantial property and equipment loss, and disruption in operations as well as any defects in our systems or those of third parties or other difficulties could expose us to liability and materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any outage or disruptive efforts could adversely impact our reputation, brand and future prospects. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. We store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as credit or debit card numbers and mobile phone numbers, and we have ultimate liability to our consumers for our failure to protect this data. We have experienced breaches of our security by hackers in the past, and breaches could occur in the future. In such circumstances, our encryption of data and other protective measures have not prevented unauthorized access and may not be sufficient to prevent future unauthorized access. For example, in January 2014 we discovered unauthorized activity in 687 of our accounts which were inappropriately credited, and the improperly credited funds were subsequently withdrawn from our kiosks. We incurred a loss of RUB 88 million. Although we do not believe that any confidential customer account data was compromised as a result of the activity, any future breach of our system, including through employee fraud, may subject us to material losses or liability, including fines and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit or debit card information, identity theft, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients from using electronic payments as well as kiosks and terminals generally and our services specifically, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, result in the imposition of material penalties and fines by state authorities and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of our agreements with Visa Inc., Visa could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. Under our agreements with Visa, we are required to comply with both the terms of those agreements and the terms of Visa Core Rules and Visa Product and Service Rules. If we do not comply with the terms of the agreements or the rules, Visa could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate the registrations that allow us to process transactions on its network. In addition, under our agreements with Visa, Visa is entitled to terminate the agreements in case of a material breach by us or if it determines the agreements are contrary to its interests. If we are in breach of the agreements or Visa otherwise terminates its agreements with us, we may be unable to issue Visa-branded prepaid cards or continue to operate under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair our registration, could prevent us from issuing Visa-branded prepaid cards or operating under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, thereby reducing the number of transactions made though Visa Qiwi Wallet. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, as well as on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The cost to us of consumers reloading their Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts may increase. We make available to our consumers a large variety of methods to reload the Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts, including, among others, mobile phone balances, bank cards, kiosks and terminals and ATMs. The reload methods have different cost implications for us. For example, on payments made through the kiosks and terminals owned by our agents, we usually pay lower fees for reloading the Visa Qiwi Wallet than on payments made from bank cards. We currently do not attempt to direct consumer preferences towards particular reload methods. If their preferences shift towards reload methods that come at a higher cost to us, our margins could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Qiwi Bank and other Russian banks operate in a highly regulated environment, and increased regulator scrutiny could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In September 2010, we acquired Qiwi Bank from certain of our shareholders. Qiwi Bank provides issuing, acquiring and deposit settlement functions within our group. All banks operating in Russia are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Requirements imposed by regulators, including capital adequacy, liquidity reserves, prudential ratios, loss provisions and other regulatory requirements are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect consumers and other third parties with whom a bank deals. These regulations may limit our activities, and may increase our costs of doing business, or require us to seek additional capital in order to comply with applicable capital adequacy or liquidity requirements. Existing laws and regulations could be amended, the manner in which laws and regulations are enforced or interpreted could change and new laws or regulations could be adopted. In July 2013, the CBR completed an inspection of Qiwi Bank and discovered a number of deficiencies in its compliance with certain banking regulations in relation to, among other things, the mechanics of its settlements with CJSC QIWI as a payment agent, reporting requirements, credit risk assessment, prudential ratio calculation and reserve requirements and governance. The CBR also noted that Qiwi Bank’s internal controls did not reflect the nature and scope of the bank’s activities. We have rectified these deficiencies but had to pay a fine of RUB 150,000. In September 2014, the CBR discovered a number of violations of the Russian National Payment System Law at Qiwi Bank, including, among other things, violations of some of the CBR reporting obligations and failure to comply with statutory thresholds for electronic money transfers. The CBR has issued an order to Qiwi Bank to rectify discovered violations, and Qiwi Bank has undertaken measures to do so and implement the CBR’s recommendations, including adoption of an internal action plan, which contains the step-by-step measures to ensure no such violations will occur in the future. As of the date of this annual report, we have rectified these violations. There can be no assurance that similar inspections in the future or increased scrutiny by the CBR will not result in discovery of more significant violations of various banking regulations, or what sanctions the CBR would choose to employ against us if this were to happen. Any breach of applicable regulations could expose us to potential liability, including in extreme instances the revocation of our banking license. Revocation of any of our banking licenses would significantly hinder our ability to process payments, and would result in a decrease of our profitability, damage our reputation and could cause other regulators to increase their scrutiny of our activities. Furthermore, under our arrangements with Visa, Qiwi Bank represents, among other things, that it is in good standing and has been granted all necessary authorizations from applicable governmental and regulatory authorities to operate a Visa card program. If any of Qiwi Bank’s licenses are revoked or it loses its authorization to operate a Visa card program, Visa could terminate its agreements with us. For these reasons, any breach of laws and regulations by Qiwi Bank or the revocation of its banking licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent months, the CBR has considerably increased the intensity of its supervision and regulation of the Russian banking sector. Historically, the revocation of banking licenses by the CBR has been a relatively rare event mostly occurring to local banks with little assets and little or no significance for the banking sector as a whole. Starting October 2013, however, the CBR has launched a campaign aimed at cleansing the Russian banking industry, revoking the licenses from an unusually high number of banks (including significant banks such as Master-Bank and Investbank) on allegations of money laundering, financial statements manipulation and other illegal activities, as well as inability of certain banks to discharge their financial obligations. These measures resulted in turmoil in the banking industry, instigated a banking panic and bank runs on a number of Russian credit institutions, and severely undermined the trust that the Russian population had with private banks. In addition to putting increasing regulatory pressure on Qiwi Bank, this change in policy by the CBR has also impacted, and we expect may continue to impact, our business in a number of other ways, including reduced spending by the banks on advertising and a decrease in consumer lending, resulting in less loan repayments through our network and 17 Table of Contents therefore reduced fees. As a result of a general decrease in banking activity, among other factors, Russia may experience less robust consumer spending, which could also result in the reduction of our payment processing fees. In addition, these factors could further tighten liquidity on the Russian market and add pressure onto the ruble. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could affect attractiveness of our services adversely and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could diminish consumer confidence in, and the attractiveness of, our services. Breaches of our consumers’ privacy and our security systems could have the same effect. We sometimes take measures to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security, such as freezing consumer funds, which could damage relations with our consumers. These measures heighten the need for prompt and attentive customer service to resolve irregularities and disputes. In addition we have previously received negative media coverage regarding customer disputes. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could impact our profitability significantly. Any inability by us to manage or train our customer service representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with our agents and our merchants do not include exclusivity clauses and may be terminated unilaterally at any time or at short notice. We normally do not include exclusivity clauses in our agreements with agents or merchants. Accordingly, our merchants and agents do not have any restrictions on dealings with other providers and can switch from our payment processing system to another without significant investment. Additionally, due to mandatory provisions of Russian civil law, our agreements with agents may be unilaterally terminated by the agents at any time, and our agreements with merchants may be unilaterally terminated by the merchants upon one month’s prior notice. The termination of our contracts with existing agents or merchants or a significant decline in the amount of business we do with them as a result of our contracts not having exclusivity clauses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our payment system might be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes, which could expose us to additional liability and harm our business. Despite measures we have taken and continue to take, our payment system remains susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include use of our payment services in connection with fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud and prohibited sales of restricted products. In the past there have been news articles on how organized crime groups have used our payment services to transfer money in the course of illegal transactions. In particular, in February 2013 it was reported by the media that the Moscow Arbitration Court upheld a RUB 289 million tax claim against LLC Rusal Folga, a subsidiary of the major Russian aluminum producer Rusal, confirming that in 2008-2009 LLC Rusal Folga used shell firms for tax evasion. Some of these shell firms acted as our agents and cashed out money via Qiwi kiosks. More, recently, in February 2015, an investigation by law enforcement officials relating to a small number of clients of QIWI Bank took place at our Moscow offices. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage these risks. We are not able to monitor in each case the sources for our counterparties’ funds or the ways in which they use them. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, an increase in fraudulent transactions or publicity regarding chargeback disputes could harm our reputation and reduce consumer confidence in the use of our kiosks and terminals and virtual wallets. Our business is exposed to counterparty and credit risks. We seek to sell services on a prepayment basis or to ensure that our counterparties have low credit risk profiles, such as large merchants and agents. Nevertheless, we are exposed to the risk of non-payment or other default under our contracts with our agents and merchants. If we provide trade credit or loans to an agent and we are unable to collect loans or proceeds paid to the agent by its consumers due to the agent’s insolvency, fraud or otherwise, we must nonetheless complete the 18 Table of Contents payment to the merchant on behalf of the consumer. As a result, our losses would not be limited to a loss of revenue in the form of fees due to us from the agent, but could amount to the entire amount of consumer payments accepted by such agent for a certain period of time. We also have significant receivables due from some of our merchants and agents, and may not recover these receivables in the event of such merchants’ bankruptcy or otherwise. As of December 31, 2014, we had credit exposure to our agents of RUB 521 million and to our merchants of RUB 4,457 million. Our receivables from merchants are generally unsecured and non-interest bearing, our receivables and loans from agents are generally interest-bearing and unsecured. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor their creditworthiness will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk. If we experience material defaults by our agents and/or merchants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to currency risks. Our financial statements are expressed in Russian rubles, while our revenues and expenses outside Russia are in local currencies. Accordingly, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the ruble and such other currencies. In addition, changes in currency exchange rates also affect the carrying value of assets on our consolidated Statement of financial position, which, depending on the Statement of financial position classification of the relevant asset, can result in losses on our consolidated Statement of financial position. Over the past ten years, the Russian ruble has fluctuated dramatically against the U.S. Dollar and the Euro. Due to the economic sanctions imposed on certain Russian companies and individuals by the US, EU, Canada and other countries, as well as the volatility in oil prices, high inflation and a sharp capital outflow from Russia, the ruble has significantly depreciated against the U.S. Dollar and Euro since the beginning of 2014. According to the CBR, from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2014, the ruble has depreciated by 72% against the U.S. Dollar and by 52% against the Euro. Further fluctuations of the ruble could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory authorities in Russia and Kazakhstan could determine that we hold a dominant position in our markets, and could impose limitations on our operational flexibility which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian anti-monopoly authorities impose various requirements on companies that occupy a dominant position in their markets. We believe that to date the anti-monopoly authorities have neither assessed the Russian payment services industry as a whole nor, more specifically, the kiosk and terminal market or the electronic payment market. If they do so, they may conclude that we hold a dominant position in one or more of the markets in which we operate. If they were to do so, this could result in limitations on our future acquisitions and a requirement that we pre-clear with the authorities any changes to our standard agreements with merchants and agents, as well as any specially negotiated agreements with business partners. In addition, if we were to decline to conclude a contract with a third party this could, in certain circumstances, be regarded as abuse of a dominant market position. Russian anti-monopoly authorities have also been known to determine that a market player has been in violation of anti-trust laws solely on the basis of circumstantial evidence pointing to its anti-competitive behavior without any written or oral evidence to support this. Any abuse of a dominant market position could lead to administrative penalties and the imposition of a fine of up to 15% of our annual revenue for the previous year. In addition, in April 2012 the Competition Protection Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or the Competition Protection Agency, included our subsidiary in Kazakhstan in the state register of market participants with dominant or monopoly position in Kazakhstan. Entities included in this register are prohibited from performing actions that may have a detrimental effect on competition, restrict access to the market or infringe the rights of consumers, including predatory or discriminatory pricing, unjustified resale restrictions, imposing unreasonable terms, or refusing to supply or halting supplies for unjustified reasons. Status as a dominant market participant also puts an entity under much more stringent scrutiny from the Competition Protection Agency, therefore increasing the probability of being investigated and penalized if a violation occurs. As a result, the Competition Protection Agency may impose restrictions on our operations, or take other measures that may be inconsistent with our strategy. The maximum liability to which we can be exposed is a penalty equal to 10% of the revenue earned as a result of market abuse, plus confiscation of the full amount of such revenue. The maximum liability is determined in reference to not more than one year of such revenues. In November 2012, our subsidiary in Kazakhstan became subject to an investigation conducted by the Competition Protection Agency concerning alleged abuse of its dominant position in Kazakhstan’s electronic payments market. No fine has been levied as a result of the investigation, but the Competition Protection Agency ordered us to rectify certain violations of the anti-trust legislation. We have complied with the orders and 19 Table of Contents have taken actions to remedy these violations. However, we expect similar investigations by the Competition Protection Agency to recur in the future, and we cannot reliably estimate the amounts of claims that can be brought against us in connection with these investigations. Recently, in March and May 2014, our subsidiary in Kazakhstan received various requests from anti-trust authorities for information related to its business in connection with the analysis of the Kazakhstan market of payments through kiosks. We complied with the requests, however, as of the date of this annual report, it remains unclear what, if any, actions, the Kazakh authorities may take in connection with this. These limitations may reduce our operational and commercial flexibility and responsiveness, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An ongoing SEC Review of our public filings may require us to amend or restate our financial statements. Starting from January 1, 2014, we began operating through a single segment. On September 23, 2014, we received an SEC comment letter on our Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2013. The SEC comments addressed various items, including in connection with the changes in our segment reporting. We provided a response to that and subsequent letters. Because we have not yet received a formal reply from the SEC to our latest response letter dated February 4, 2015, we do not know if the SEC is satisfied with our responses, or if they consider certain comments to remain unresolved. At this time, we cannot predict whether or not the SEC will agree with our financial reporting principles relating to segmentation. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to revise our financial statements for prior and/or future periods. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We also maintain patents for certain of our technologies. We customarily require our employees and independent contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or otherwise to agree to keep our proprietary information confidential when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include clauses requiring our employees to assign to us all of the inventions and intellectual property rights they develop in the course of their employment and to agree not to disclose our confidential information. Nevertheless, others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property. Further, contractual arrangements may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or ensure an adequate remedy in the event of any unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Because of the limited protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, as well as in certain jurisdictions in which we have started expanding our operations, such as Moldova, Romania and Belarus, our intellectual property rights may not be as protected as they may be in more developed markets such as the United States. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights (including trade secrets and know-how), which could be expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete and could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. Additionally, we do not hold any patents for our business model or our business processes, in part because our ability to obtain them in Russia is subject to legislative constraints, and we do not currently intend to obtain any such patents in Russia, the U.S. or elsewhere. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services or technology are claimed to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third party’s intellectual property or proprietary rights. Such claims could include patent infringement, copyright infringement, trademark infringement, trade secret misappropriation or breach of licenses. In addition, while we seek to obtain copyright registration certificates for the critical software we develop, our rights to software obtained as works for hire might be potentially challenged by the employees and former employees or developers of such software. We may not be able to successfully defend against such claims, which may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and also might require us to redesign affected services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services. In such circumstances, if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Additionally, in recent years, non-practicing entities have been acquiring patents, making claims of patent infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies in our industry. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit and successfully defend these claims, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. 20 Table of Contents We may use open source software in a manner that could be harmful to our business. We use open source software in connection with our technology and services. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. Moreover, some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The use of such open source code may ultimately require us to replace certain code used in our products, pay a royalty to use some open source code or discontinue certain products. Any of the above requirements could be harmful to our business, financial condition and operations. We do not have and may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance to protect ourselves from business risks. The insurance industry in Russia is not yet fully developed, and many forms of insurance protection common in more developed countries are not yet fully available or are not available on comparable or commercially acceptable terms. Accordingly, while we hold certain mandatory types of insurance policies in Russia, we do not currently maintain insurance coverage for business interruption, property damage or loss of key management personnel as we have been unable to obtain these on commercially acceptable terms. We do not hold insurance policies to cover for any losses resulting from counterparty and credit risks or fraudulent transactions. We also do not generally maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for most types of business-related risks. Accordingly, our lack of insurance coverage or reserves with respect to business-related risks may expose us to substantial losses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In a dynamic industry like ours, the ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel is critical to our success and growth. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. In order for us to compete and grow successfully, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. This is particularly true with respect to qualified and experienced software engineers and IT staff, who are highly sought after and are not in sufficient supply in Russia and in most other markets in which we operate. The market for such personnel is highly competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to replace effectively current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. It may also be difficult for us to obtain necessary qualified personnel with local experience to support our international growth, which may jeopardize our ongoing and planned expansion into new geographies. Our efforts to retain and develop personnel may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Corporate Governance Matters and Organizational Structure The substantial share ownership position of our chief executive officer Sergey Solonin may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As a result of a number of sell-downs by the selling shareholders of our class A shares and their immediate conversion upon sale into class B shares, our chief executive officer Sergey Solonin, through Saldivar Investments Limited, as of the date of this annual report beneficially owns 69% of our class A shares, representing approximately 57.7% of the voting power of our issued share capital. As a result of this concentration of share ownership, Mr. Solonin has sole discretion over any matters submitted to our shareholders for approval that require a simple majority vote and has significant voting power on all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval that require a qualified majority vote, including the power to veto them. Our articles of association require the approval of no less than 75% of present and voting shareholders for matters such as amendments to the constitutional documents of our company, dissolution or liquidation of our company, reducing the share capital, buying back shares and approving the total number of shares and classes of shares to be reserved for issuance under any employee stock option plan or any other equity-based incentive compensation program of our group. Matters requiring a simple majority shareholder vote include, among other matters, increasing our authorized capital, removing a director, final dividend declaration, approving the annual audited accounts and appointing auditors. This concentration of ownership could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market price of our shares. The interests of Mr. Solonin may not always coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect the price of our ADSs. 21 Table of Contents Our ADS holders have limited rights in relation to the appointment of our directors, including our independent directors. Other than in certain limited cases provided for in our articles of association, our directors are elected by shareholder weighted voting, sometimes referred to as cumulative voting, under which each shareholder has the right to cast as many votes as the voting rights attached to its shares multiplied by a number equal to the number of board seats to be filled by shareholders. As a result, our class A shareholders will have the ability to appoint, through the weighted voting set forth in our articles of association, at least a majority of the board of directors for the foreseeable future. The interests of our directors may therefore not be aligned with or be in the best interests of the holders of our ADSs. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Cyprus law and our articles of association, and differ in some important respects from the typical rights of shareholders under U.S. state laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in Cyprus. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Cyprus law and our articles of association are different than under the laws of some U.S. state laws. For example, by law existing holders of shares in a Cypriot public company are entitled to pre-emptive rights on the issue of new shares in that company (provided such shares are paid in cash and the pre-emption rights have not been disapplied). In addition, our articles of association include other provisions, which differ from provisions typically included in the governing documents of most companies organized in the U.S.: • our board of directors can only take certain actions by means of a supermajority vote of 75% of its members, including approving our annual budget and business plan, disposing of our interest in a subsidiary if such disposal results in a change of control over such subsidiary, issuing shares for consideration other than cash and other actions; • our shareholders are able to convene an extraordinary general meeting; and • if our board of directors exercises its right to appoint a director to fill a vacancy on the board created during the term of a director’s appointment, shareholders holding 10.01% of the voting rights of the company may terminate the appointment of all of the directors and initiate reelection of the entire board of directors. As a result of the differences described above, our shareholders may have rights different to those generally available to shareholders of companies organized under U.S. state laws and our board of directors may find it more difficult to approve certain actions. Acquisitions of Russian entities are subject to pre-closing approval by multiple government authorities which exercise significant discretion as to whether a consent should be granted or not, and are regulated by a significant body of law which is often ambiguous and open to varying interpretations. Due to our ownership of Qiwi Bank, any transactions resulting in the acquisition of more than 50% of our voting power or the right to otherwise direct our business activities would become subject to preliminary approval by the CBR. In addition, any acquisition of more than 50% of our voting power may also be subject to a preliminary approval by the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service, or the FAS. Furthermore, Qiwi Bank holds encryption licenses which are necessary to conduct its operations, and by virtue of this may be deemed to be a “strategic enterprise” for the purposes of the Federal Law of the Russian Federation No. 57-FZ “On the Procedure for Foreign Investments in Enterprises which are Strategically Important for the State Defense and National Security”, dated April 29, 2008, as amended. In this case, any acquisition of control over our company would require an approval of a specialized government commission, which is a relatively lengthy process that typically takes between three and six months in practice. See “Regulation—Regulation of Strategic Investments.” These regulatory approval requirements may have the effect of making a takeover of our company more difficult or less attractive, and may prevent or delay a change of control, which could have a negative impact on the liquidity of, and investor interest in, our ADSs. Additionally, under Russian law, the depositary may be treated as the owner of the class B shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore, could be deemed a beneficial shareholder of Qiwi Bank. This is different from the way other jurisdictions treat ADSs. As a result, the depositary may be subject to the approval requirements of the CBR, the FAS and the government commission described above in the event an amount of our shares representing over 50% of our voting power is deposited in the ADS program. Accordingly, our ADS program may be subject to an effective limit of 50% of our voting power, unless the depositary obtains FAS, CBR and potentially additional government commission approvals to increase its ownership in excess of 50% of our voting power. This could limit our ability to raise capital in the future and the ability of our existing shareholders to sell their ADSs in the public markets, which in turn may impact the liquidity of share capital. 22 Table of Contents If a quota is imposed on foreign ownership of Russian banks, a takeover of our company may be impossible. Under current Russian law, the Russian government is entitled, upon consultation with the CBR, to propose legislation imposing a quota on foreign ownership in the Russian banking industry, covering both Russian branches of international banks and foreign participation in the charter capital of Russian banks, such as Qiwi Bank. There is currently a draft bill imposing a 50% quota on foreign ownership, subject to certain exemptions. If the draft bill is enacted in its current form, a takeover of our company by a foreign purchaser may become impossible, which could limit, prevent or delay a change of control of our company and in turn could negatively impact the liquidity of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on Nasdaq, we have elected to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain Nasdaq requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on Nasdaq, we are permitted in certain cases to, and do, follow Cyprus corporate governance practices instead of the corresponding requirements of Nasdaq. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of Nasdaq requirements must submit to Nasdaq in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any significant requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed instead of any such requirement. We follow Cyprus corporate governance practices with regard to the composition of our board of directors which, unlike the applicable Nasdaq rule for U.S. corporations, do not require that a majority of our directors be independent. As a result, although currently six out of eleven directors on our board are independent, we cannot assure you that our board of directors will always have a majority of independent directors in the future. We also do not have a compensation committee or a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors, and our independent directors do not meet in regular executive sessions. In addition, our board of directors has not made any determination whether it will comply with Nasdaq rules concerning shareholder approval prior to our taking certain company actions, including the issuance of 20% or more of our then-outstanding share capital or voting power in connection with an acquisition, and our board of directors, in such circumstances, may instead determine to follow Cypriot law. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under Nasdaq corporate governance rules. Our ADS holders may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our class A shares and class B shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Our ADS holders’ right to receive certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement. Except as set forth in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the class B shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have to appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the class B shares represented by the ADSs. Upon receipt of voting instructions from an ADS holder, the depositary will vote the underlying class B shares in accordance with these instructions. Pursuant to our articles of association, we may convene an annual shareholders’ meeting or a shareholders’ meeting called for approval of matters requiring a 75% shareholder vote upon at least 45 days’ notice and upon at least 30 days’ notice for all other shareholders’ meetings. If we give timely notice to the depositary under the terms of the deposit agreement, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure our ADS holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the class B shares underlying their ADSs, and it is possible that our ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote and there may be nothing such holders can do if the class B shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as requested. In addition, although our ADS holders may directly exercise their right to vote by withdrawing the class B shares underlying their ADSs, they may not receive sufficient advance notice of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting to withdraw the class B shares underlying their ADSs to allow them to vote with respect to any specific matter. Furthermore, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our ADSs. As a result, holders of ADSs may not receive distributions made by us. 23 Table of Contents Our shareholders and ADS holders do not benefit from certain anti-takeover protections. As we are incorporated in Cyprus, we are subject to Cypriot law. As of the date of this annual report, Cypriot law does not contain any requirement for a mandatory offer to be made by a person acquiring shares or depositary receipts of a Cypriot company even if such an acquisition confers on such person control over us if neither such company’s shares nor depositary receipts are listed on a regulated market in the European Economic Area. Neither our shares nor our ADSs are listed on a regulated market. Consequently, a prospective bidder acquiring ADSs may gain control over us in circumstances in which there is no requirement to conduct a mandatory offer under an applicable takeover protection regime. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be given the opportunity to receive treatment equal to what may be received, in the event of an offer made by a potential bidder with a view to gaining control over us or by certain other holders of ADSs or, as the case may be, shares at the relevant time. As a result, a bid for, or creeping acquisition of control over, us is currently not regulated by Cyprus law. Risks Relating to the Russian Federation and Other Markets in Which We Operate Emerging markets, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant legal, economic and political risks. Investors in emerging markets, such as Russia and Kazakhstan, should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. Investors should also note that emerging economies are subject to rapid change and that the information set out herein may become outdated relatively quickly. Accordingly, investors should exercise particular care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, their investment is appropriate. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved, and investors are urged to consult with their own legal and financial advisors before making an investment in our ADSs. The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. The accession of Crimea to Russia in March 2014, the subsequent economic sanctions imposed on certain Russian companies and individuals by the U.S., EU, Canada and other countries and the ongoing crisis in Eastern Ukraine have resulted in significant overall price declines of Russian stocks and weakening of the ruble, as well as other adverse consequences. Initially, the sanctions were limited to freezing the funds and other assets of, imposing travel restrictions on, and prohibiting transactions with, certain sanctioned individuals, most of whom were politicians rather than businessmen. These sanctions can also disrupt business with an entity that is owned by a sanctioned person, even if that entity is not specifically sanctioned in its own right. In addition, in furtherance of these sanctions, the U.S. and the European Union imposed restrictions on exports to Russia of certain high-technology items or items that could contribute to Russia’s military capabilities (including dual-use items). However, following continued unrest in Eastern Ukraine, and the shooting down of a civilian aircraft resulting in nearly 300 deaths in July 2014, both the EU and the United States imposed additional sanctions, targeting the Russian financial, defence and energy sectors. Many of the major state-owned businesses in Russia became targeted by U.S. and/or EU sanctions, including Sberbank, Rosneft, Gazprombank, Vnesheconombank and Bank VTB, as well as certain private firms such as Novatek. With the aim of restricting Russian access to EU capital markets, the EU imposed a ban on the direct or indirect purchase, sale, provision of investment services for and assistance in the issuance of, or other dealings with transferable securities and money-market instruments with a maturity exceeding 90 days which were issued after August 1, 2014, by certain Russian financial institutions and their subsidiaries. The ban also covers parties whose proprietary rights are majority owned by these entities or acting on their behalf or at their direction. Such EU sanctions were subsequently extended to cover transferable securities and money-market instruments with a maturity exceeding 30 days issued after September 12, 2014. Furthermore, the EU ban relating to such shorter-term transferable securities and money-market instruments has been expanded to target six Russian defence and energy companies (including Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft) along with their subsidiaries as of September 12, 2014. A new EU ban was also introduced to prohibit (subject to certain exceptions) directly or indirectly making or being part of any arrangement to make new loans or credit with a maturity exceeding 30 days to such sanctioned entities after September 12, 2014. 24 Table of Contents The EU has also imposed restrictions on the sale, supply, transfer or export to (or for use in) Russia of certain technologies used in the oil & gas industry. Further, it is prohibited to directly or indirectly provide certain services relating to the exploration and production of deep water oil and artic oil or relating to shale oil projects in Russia. In addition to these “sectoral” sanctions, the EU has given legal effect to broad financial sanctions. Within the jurisdiction of the EU, these financial sanctions order an asset freeze and prohibit making funds or economic resources available, directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of sanctioned parties. Sanctioned parties are certain listed natural persons, but also listed legal persons, entities or bodies in Crimea or Sevastopol whose ownership has been transferred contrary to Ukrainian law, or legal persons, entities or bodies which have benefited from such a transfer. Each EU sanction regime also prohibits to knowingly and intentionally participate in activities the object or effect of which is to circumvent any of the specific prohibitions set out in the respective regime. The U.S. has imposed similar restrictions on entities in the Russian financial sector, energy sector and defence and related material sector pursuant to four Directives. Under each of these Directives, the relevant prohibitions apply not only to the person that is listed, but also to any entities in which the listed persons, either individually or in the aggregate with another listed entity, hold a 50 per cent. or greater ownership interest. Directive 1 (financial services sector), issued on July 16, 2014 and amended on September 12, 2014, prohibits US persons from transacting in, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in (i) new debt of longer than 90 days maturity issued on or after July 16, 2014, or longer than 30 days maturity issued on or after September 12, 2014, for listed persons, their property, or their interests in property, or (ii) new equity of listed persons issued on or after the designation date. Entities currently subject to the Directive 1 prohibitions include Gazprombank and Vnesheconombank, designated on July 16, 2014; Bank of Moscow, Russian Agricultural Bank, and VTB Bank, designated on July 29, 2014, and Sberbank, designated on September 12, 2014. Directive 2 (energy sector), issued on July 16, 2014, prohibits US persons from transacting in, providing financing for, or otherwise dealing in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity for the listed persons. Entities currently subject to the Directive 2 prohibitions include OAO Novatek and OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, designated on July 16, 2014, and AK Transneft OAO and OJSC Gazprom Neft, designated on September 12, 2014. Directive 3 (defence and related materiel sector), issued on September 12, 2014, prohibits the following activities by US persons or within the United States: all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to Directive 3. The only entity currently subject to the Directive 3 prohibitions is Rostec, which was designated on September 12, 2014, and entities in which it holds a 50 per cent. or greater ownership interest. Directive 4 (energy sector), issued on September 12, 2014, further targets the Russian energy sector and prohibits the following activities by US persons or within the United States: the provision, exportation, or re-exportation, directly or indirectly, of goods, services (except for financial services), or technology in support of exploration or production for deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects that have the potential to produce oil in the Russian Federation, or in maritime area claimed by the Russian Federation and extending from its territory, and that involve any person determined to be subject to Directive 4, its property, or its interests in property. Entities currently subject to the Directive 4 prohibitions include OJSC Gazprom Neft and OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, OJSC Gazprom, Lukoil OAO, and Surgutneftegas, all designated on September 12, 2014. On September 12, 2014, OFAC also issued General License 1A, which replaces previously issued General License 1. General License 1A authorizes all transactions by US persons, wherever located, and transactions within the United States involving derivative products whose value is linked to an underlying asset that constitutes (1) new debt with a maturity of longer than 30 days or new equity issued by a person subject to Directive 1; (2) new debt with a maturity of longer than 90 days issued by a person subject to Directive 2; and (3) new debt with a maturity of longer than 30 days issued by a person subject to Directive 3. The U.S. and EU have publicly stated that they are prepared to impose broader economic sanctions in response to an escalation of the crisis in Ukraine. There can be no assurance that the existing or new sanctions will not be so expanded to include or affect any company of our group or any of our directors, officers or principal shareholders. In addition, a number of Western businesses have curtailed or suspended activities in Russia or dealings with Russian counterparts for reputational reasons even though currently neither such activities nor dealings with their relevant Russian counterparts were proscribed by the sanctions. 25 Table of Contents While the current sanctions do not target us or the payments industry more generally, these sanctions could have the effect of damaging the Russian economy by, among other things, accelerating capital flight from Russia, weakening of the Russian ruble, exacerbating the negative investor sentiment towards Russia and making it harder for Russian companies to access international financial markets for debt and equity financing. An expansion of the existing or introduction of new sanctions, including those mentioned above, or sanctions specifically targeting us or our management or shareholders, or our sector generally, could result in our international customers, suppliers, shareholders and other business partners revising their relationship with us for compliance, political, reputational or other reasons, which could affect our business. In addition, following the accession of Crimea to Russia, which is seen by the EU as illegal annexation of Crimea, we started operating in that region with a limited number of kiosks. On December 19, 2014, U.S. President Obama signed a new executive order imposing comprehensive sanctions on the Crimea region. Almost all transactions involving a U.S. person or that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction and that directly or indirectly involve an individual or entity in Crimea are prohibited, with the exception of certain transactions involving certain agricultural commodities, medicine and medical devices. The executive order also permits the designation of persons that operate in Crimea, leaders of entities operating in Crimea, entities that are owned or controlled by a person that is designated by OFAC, or persons that provide material assistance or financial, material, or technological support to a person that is designated by OFAC. The EU has similarly introduced a broad set of sanctions through the Council Regulation (EU) 692/2014 as amended by Regulation (EU) 1351/2014, including: an investment ban prohibiting to acquire new or extend any existing participation or ownership of real estate located in Crimea or Sevastopol, acquire new or extend any existing participation or ownership or control of an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol, provide financing to an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol, create any joint venture in Crimea or Sevastopol or with an entity in Crimea or Sevastopol or provide investment services directly related to the above activities; an embargo on certain listed goods and technology that are suited for the key sectors of transport, telecommunications, energy and mining; and an import ban on goods originating from Crimea and Sevastopol and on financial assistance as well as insurance and reinsurance related to such import. To date, we do not believe that any of the current sanctions as in force limit our ability to operate in Crimea. However, relevant regulators and/or our counterparties could take a view that is different from ours on the issue. Moreover, any new or expanded sanctions that may be imposed on Russian businesses operating in Crimea by the U.S., EU, or other countries may materially adversely affect us and any future plans we may have to expand in that region. In the ordinary course of our business, we may accept payments from consumers to or otherwise indirectly interact with certain entities that are the targets of U.S. sanctions. We operate primarily within the Russian financial system and, accordingly, many of our customers have accounts at banks in Russia. A number of Russian banks, including Bank Rossiya, SMP Bank, Investcapitalbank and Sobinbank have been designated by OFAC and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, Tempbank was designated due to its dealings with the Syrian government. U.S. sanctions may be extended to any person that U.S. authorities determine has materially assisted, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any sanctioned individuals or entities. For example, we may be associated with U.S.-designated banks due to us accepting payments for them from consumers in the ordinary course of our business, even though we may not have any direct contract relationships with them. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Government would not view such activities as meeting the criteria for U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we do not generally identify our customers where there is no express requirement to do so under Russian anti-money laundering legislation. Therefore, we are not always able to screen them against the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List published by OFAC and other sanctions lists. While we believe that our indirect interaction with Russian banks and potential interaction with designated individuals that may be subject to U.S. or EU economic and financial sanctions does not contravene any law, our business and reputation could be adversely affected if the U.S. government were to designate us as a blocked party and extend such sanctions to us. The executive orders authorizing the U.S. sanctions provide that persons may be designated if, inter alia, they materially assist, or provide financial, material, or technological support for or goods or services to or in support of, blocked or designated parties. EU financial sanctions prohibit the direct and indirect making available of funds or economic resources to or for the benefit of sanctioned parties. Investors may also be adversely affected if we are so designated, resulting in their investment in our securities being prohibited or restricted. Furthermore, under those circumstances, some U.S. or EU investors may decide for legal or reputational reasons to divest their holdings in us or not to purchase our securities in the first place. We are aware of initiatives by U.S. governmental entities and U.S. institutional investors, such as pension funds, to adopt or consider adopting laws, regulations, or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with certain countries. There can be no assurance that the foregoing will not occur or that such occurrence will not have a material adverse effect on our share price. Even if we are not subjected to U.S. or other 26 Table of Contents economic sanctions, our participation in the Russian financial system and indirect interaction with sanctioned banks and potential interaction with designated individuals may adversely impact our reputation among investors. There is also a risk that other entities with which we engage in business, or individuals or entities associated with them, are, or at any time in the future may become, subject to sanctions. Initially, Russia imposed only a limited set of sanctions in response to the Ukraine-related sanctions imposed by the U.S., EU and other countries primarily focused on banning certain Western government officials from travelling to Russia. However, on August 6, 2014, the Russian President signed a decree “On the use of specific economic measures”, which mandated an effective embargo for a one-year period on imports of most of the agricultural products whose country of origin had either “adopted the decision on introduction of economic sanctions in respect of Russian legal entities and (or) individuals, or joined same”. The next day, the Russian government ordinance was adopted and published with immediate effect, which specified the banned items as well as the countries of provenance: the United States, the European Union, Norway, Canada and Australia, including a ban on fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, milk and dairy imports. Russia may introduce broader measures as the situation in the Ukraine unfolds, including, without limitation, measures to address capital flight from Russia or that impose restrictions on transactions on capital and debt markets or otherwise, any of which could further adversely affect investor interest and the Russian economy generally. Any such countermeasures could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, under a draft law submitted to the State Duma in December 2014, the Russian Government could prohibit activities by foreign legal entities (or their affiliates) registered in the countries that have imposed sanctions on Russian persons. The crisis in Ukraine is ongoing and could escalate. Were full-fledged hostilities to break out between Ukraine and Russia, they would likely cause significant economic disruption and calls from the Western countries for a comprehensive sanction regime that would seek to further isolate Russia from the world economy. Even the current level of ongoing civil insurrection in eastern Ukraine, if no resolution is forthcoming, may well lead to further strengthening and broadening of Ukraine-related sanctions. For example, there have been proposals to cut off Russia from the international SWIFT payment system, which would disrupt ordinary financial services in Russia and any cross-border trade. The potential repercussions surrounding the situation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine are unknown and no assurance can be given regarding the future of relations between Russia and other countries. Overall, the situation in Ukraine and Crimea remains uncertain and we cannot predict how the Ukrainian crisis will unfold or the impact it will have on our business or results of operations. Any or all of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. New legislation signed into law in Russia in May – October 2014 may significantly complicate the operation of a payment system in Russia and potentially force international payment systems to reduce their exposure to Russia or cease operations in Russia altogether. As a result of the economic sanctions imposed on certain Russian companies and individuals by the U.S. in response to the situation in the Ukraine, in March 2014, Visa and MasterCard stopped processing payments for certain Russian banks that were either targets of U.S. sanctions themselves or were allegedly controlled by individuals who were targets of such sanctions. In response, on May 5, 2014, new legislation was signed into law in Russia that gives the Central Bank of Russia, or CBR, authority to impose significant fines on payment infrastructure participants, including payment systems such as Visa and MasterCard, for unilateral termination or suspension of servicing another payment infrastructure participant and its clients. For the CBR to be able to enforce these fines, this legislation also requires operators of payments systems (other than payment systems deemed “nationally important” pursuant to the law) to place collateral on deposit with the CBR that may be forfeited if they terminate or suspend services in the future. “Nationally important payment systems” are defined in the law as payment systems (i) whose operators are controlled by the Russian state, the CBR or Russian citizens and (ii) for which the IT used meets certain requirements established by the CBR/Russian Government (including having a certain share of such IT developed in Russia). The fines payable for unilaterally terminating or suspending services to other payment infrastructure participants may total up to 10% of such deposit for operators of payment systems other than nationally important payment systems or up to RUB10 million for operators of nationally important payment systems, in each case per each day while the termination or suspension persists. The collateral required to be deposited by operators of payment systems other than nationally important payment systems must equal the total payment volume of such payment system in the Russian Federation for two calendar days. Other changes introduced by the new legislation include the creation in Russia of a national payment card system similar to China’s Union Pay to replace Visa and MasterCard as the primary payment systems in Russia, and the requirement, from July 1, 27 Table of Contents 2016, that Russian domestic payments and money transfers only be processed by operators that exist and carry out all the functions related to such processing within Russia and not abroad. Similarly, from July 1, 2016, no data on any Russian domestic payments and money transfers may be transmitted abroad by payment infrastructure operators for any purposes. Subsequently, in October 2014, further changes were introduced that require all transactions with the use of cards issued under international brands, such as Visa and MasterCard, to be processed through the facilities of the Russian national payment card system rather than the international payment systems’ own facilities. Although this allows the international payment systems to become exempt from the collateral requirement, these developments are expected to further complicate the operations of international payment systems in Russia, and can potentially have broader detrimental consequences for the Russian financial system, which are difficult to evaluate at this stage. In the wake of this new legislation, there has been speculation that international payment systems could consider leaving the Russian market altogether. While the most recent press reports prior to the date of this annual report seem to indicate that an agreement has been reached whereby both Visa and MasterCard will continue to operate in Russia, there can be no assurance how situation will further develop. If Visa ceases to operate in Russia, we may be unable to issue Visa-branded prepaid cards or continue to operate under the “Visa Qiwi Wallet” brand, and thereby lose the possible benefits of association with the Visa brand. This could lower consumer confidence with our products and could reduce the number of transactions made though Visa Qiwi Wallet, which could have a material adverse effect on our Visa Qiwi Wallet business and our business as a whole. It could also render us unable to realize our international expansion plans associated with our partnership with Visa. Additionally, these developments have already caused MasterCard to start increasing its fees for Russian banks to protect its margins, and may cause Visa to do the same. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, as well as on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Recent changes to know-your-client requirements established by Russian anti-money laundering legislation may adversely impact our transaction volumes. On January 15, 2014, a legislative proposal was submitted to the Russian State Duma, providing for a broad package of measures aimed at combatting terrorist and extremist activities, including changes to the Russian legislation that would effectively outlaw anonymous electronic payments to foreign merchants and significantly lower the caps on such payments within Russia to not more than RUB15,000 per month (as opposed to RUB40,000 under current legislation) and not more than RUB1,000 per day. On May 5, 2014, this proposal was signed into law, albeit in a different form. While the aforementioned limitations were not adopted, anonymous peer-to-peer money transfers as well as anonymous payments to foreign entities were prohibited altogether, although simultaneously a simplified client identification procedure was provided for in order not to eliminate personal electronic money transfers altogether. The key difference between the simplified procedure and the procedure that must be followed in all other circumstances is that simplified identification can be performed remotely. The consumers who have undergone such simplified identification with the payment services provider are entitled to perform electronic money transfers to legal entitles and individual entrepreneurs using non-personified electronic means of payment provided that anytime the account balance of electronic money does not exceed RUB60,000 and the total amount of transferred funds does not exceed RUB200,000 per month, as opposed to RUB15,000 and RUB40,000 under the previous version of the law, respectively. However, remote identification requires the verification of certain data provided by consumers against public databases, which are not yet up and running at scale that is required by our payment system, which could cause us to be in violation of the identification requirements. These developments and the limitations on the payment volumes and account balances in Visa QIWI Wallet introduced as a result of our ongoing compliance process could potentially negatively affect the number of our consumers and, consequently, our volumes and revenues Political and governmental instability could adversely affect the value of investments in Russia. Political conditions in the Russian Federation were highly volatile in the 1990s, as evidenced by the frequent conflicts amongst executive, legislative and judicial authorities, which negatively impacted the business and investment climate in the Russian Federation. Over the past two decades the course of political and other reforms has in some respects been uneven and the composition of the Russian Government has at times been unstable. The Russian political system continues to be vulnerable to popular dissatisfaction, including dissatisfaction with the results of the privatizations of the 1990s, as well as to demands for autonomy from certain religious, ethnic and regional groups. Over the last 15 years, the Russian political system and the relationship between the President, the Russian Government and the Russian Parliament were generally stable. There have been, however, public protests in Moscow and other urban areas following elections for the State Duma in December 2011 alleging that the elections were subject to 28 Table of Contents substantial electoral fraud. The Prime Minister at that time, Mr. Vladimir Putin has rejected calls by opposition leaders that the elections for the State Duma be annulled and re-run, but has instituted limited political reforms. Similar protests took place following the presidential elections in March 2012 which resulted in re-election of Mr. Vladimir Putin. Future changes in the Russian Government, the State Duma or the presidency, major policy shifts or eventual lack of consensus between the president, the Russian Government, Russia’s parliament and powerful economic groups could lead to political instability. Additionally, the potential for political instability resulting from the worsening of the economic situation in Russia and deteriorating standards of living should not be underestimated. Any such instability could negatively affect the economic and political environment in Russia, particularly in the short term. Shifts in governmental policy and regulation in the Russian Federation are less predictable than in many Western democracies and could disrupt or reverse political, economic and regulatory reforms. Any significant change in the Russian Government’s program of reform in Russia could lead to the deterioration of Russia’s investment climate that might limit our ability to obtain financing in the international capital markets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The reversal of reform policies or the implementation of government policies in Russia targeted at specific individuals or companies could harm our business as well as investments in Russia more generally. In recent years, the political and economic situation in Russia has generally become more stable and conducive to investment. However, major policy shifts, government reshuffles and a lack of consensus among key political groups could hinder or reverse political, economic and regulatory reforms. Reform may also suffer if key government officials engage in private business while in office, particularly when these business interests are in the industry that such officials regulate. Any such deterioration of Russia’s investment climate might constrain our ability to obtain financing, limit our sales in Russia and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the use of governmental power against particular companies or persons, for example, through the tax, environmental or prosecutorial authorities, could adversely affect the Russian economic climate and, if directed against us, our senior management or our major shareholders, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian authorities have recently challenged some Russian companies and prosecuted their executive officers and shareholders on the grounds of tax evasion and related charges. In some cases, the results of such prosecutions and challenges have been significant claims against companies for unpaid taxes and the imposition of prison sentences on individuals. There has been speculation that in certain cases these challenges and prosecutions were intended to punish, and deter, opposition to the government or the pursuit of disfavored political or economic agendas. There has also been speculation that certain environmental challenges brought recently by Russian authorities in the oil and gas as well as mining sectors have been targeted at specific Russian businesses under non-Russian control, with a view to bringing them under state control. More generally, some observers have noted that takeovers in recent years of major private sector companies in the oil and gas, metals and manufacturing sectors by state-controlled companies following tax, environmental and other challenges may reflect a shift in official policy in favor of state control at the expense of individual or private ownership, at least where large and important enterprises are concerned. The most recent of such cases occurred in the fall of 2014, when one of Russia’s most influential businessmen Vladimir Evtushenkov was put under house arrest in relation to a money-laundering investigation linked to the purchase by Sistema, an investment company majority-owned by Mr. Evtushenkov, of shares in Bashneft, a significant oil company in Russia. Sistema’s stake in Bashneft was then nationalized in late October 2014 by a resolution of a Moscow court on account of the 2003 privatization of assets which comprise Bashneft being illegal, even though Sistema did not participate in that privatization and only came into ownership of its stake in Bashneft in 2009. Sistema has announced it has no intention to appeal against the resolution, and on December 9, 2014, transferred its stake in Bashneft to the Russian Federation. Political and other conflicts create an uncertain operating environment that hinders our long-term planning ability and could adversely affect the value of our investments in Russia. Russia is a federation of 85 sub-federal political units, consisting of republics, territories, regions, cities of federal importance and autonomous regions and districts. The delineation of authority and jurisdiction among the members of the federation and the federal government is, in many instances, unclear and remains contested. Lack of consensus between the federal government and local or regional authorities often results in the enactment of conflicting legislation at various levels and may lead to further political instability. In particular, in the past, conflicting laws have been enacted in the areas of privatization, securities, corporate legislation, regulation of land use and licensing. Some of these laws and governmental and administrative decisions implementing them, as well as certain transactions consummated pursuant to them, have in the past been challenged in the courts in Russia and such challenges may occur in the future. 29 Table of Contents Ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have on occasion given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflict and terrorist attacks in certain regions of Russia. For example, a military conflict in August 2008 between Russia and Georgia involving South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, resulted in significant overall price declines in the Russian stock exchanges and capital outflow from Russia. Such tensions, military conflict or terrorist activities (such as the bombing of Domodedovo airport in Moscow in January 2011 and the bombing of the Moscow metro in 2010, and, most recently, two suicide bombings in Volgograd in December 2013 that resulted in 34 fatalities) could have significant political consequences, including the imposition of a state of emergency in some or all of Russia or heightened security measures, which could cause disruption to domestic commerce and exports from Russia, disrupt normal economic activity in Russia and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration of Russia’s relations with other countries could negatively affect the Russian economy and those of the nearby regions. Over the past several years, Russia has been involved in conflicts, both economic and military, involving other members of the CIS. On several occasions, this has resulted in the deterioration of Russia’s relations with other members of the international community, including the United States and various countries in Europe. Many of these jurisdictions are home to financial institutions and corporations that are significant investors in Russia and whose investment strategies and decisions may be affected by such conflicts and by worsening relations between Russia and its immediate neighbors. For example, relations between Ukraine and Russia, as well as Georgia and Russia, have recently been strained over a variety of issues. On 21 March 2014, President Putin signed legislation to recognize Crimea’s accession to, and status as part of, Russia. Since then, there has been continuing tensions between Russia and Ukraine, which were aggravated by the military conflict in Eastern Ukraine. The events in Ukraine and Crimea have prompted condemnation by members of the international community and have been strongly opposed by the EU and the United States, with a resulting material negative impact on the relationships between the EU, the United States and Russia. See “– The situation in Ukraine and the U.S., EU and other sanctions that have been imposed could adversely impact our operations and financial condition”. The emergence of new or escalated tensions between Russia and other CIS countries or other countries could negatively affect the Russian economy. This, in turn, may result in a general lack of confidence among international investors in the region’s economic and political stability and in Russian investments generally. Such lack of confidence may result in reduced liquidity, trading volatility and significant declines in the price of listed securities of companies with significant operations in Russia, including our ADSs, and in our inability to raise debt or equity capital in the international capital markets, which may affect our ability to achieve the level of growth to which we aspire. Crime and corruption could create a difficult business climate in Russia. The political and economic changes in Russia since the early 1990s have led, amongst other things, to reduced policing of society and increased lawlessness. In September 2006, the Deputy Chairman of the CBR was assassinated in what was allegedly a contract killing tied to his enforcement actions against corrupt Russian banking organizations. Organized crime, particularly property crimes in large metropolitan centers, has reportedly increased significantly since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. In addition, the Russian and international media have reported high levels of corruption in Russia. Press reports have also described instances in which government officials have engaged in selective investigations and prosecutions to further the interest of the government and individual officials or business groups. Although we adhere to a business ethics policy and internal compliance procedures to counteract the effects of crime and corruption, instances of illegal activities, demands of corrupt officials, allegations that we or our management have been involved in corruption or illegal activities or biased articles and negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic instability in Russia could have an adverse effect on our business. The Russian economy has been adversely affected by the recent global financial and economic crisis. A continuation of the economic crisis could have a negative effect on the scale and profitability of our business. Any of the following risks, which the Russian economy has experienced at various points in the past, may have or have already had a significant adverse effect on the economic climate in Russia and may burden or have already burdened our operations: • significant declines in gross domestic product, or GDP; • high levels of inflation; 30 Table of Contents • sudden price declines in the natural resource sector; • high and fast-growing interest rates; • unstable credit conditions; • international sanctions; • high state debt/GDP ratio; • instability in the local currency market; • a weakly diversified economy which depends significantly on global prices of commodities; • lack of reform in the banking sector and a weak banking system providing limited liquidity to Russian enterprises; • pervasive capital flight; • corruption and the penetration of organized crime into the economy; • significant increases in unemployment and underemployment; • the impoverishment of a large portion of the Russian population; • large number of unprofitable enterprises which continue to operate due to deficiency in the existing bankruptcy procedure; • prevalent practice of tax evasion; and • growth of the black-market economy. The Russian economy has been subject to abrupt downturns in the past. For example, on August 17, 1998, in the face of a rapidly deteriorating economic situation, the Russian Government defaulted on its ruble-denominated securities, the CBR stopped its support of the ruble and a temporary moratorium was imposed on certain hard currency payments. These actions resulted in an immediate and severe devaluation of the ruble and a sharp increase in the rate of inflation, a dramatic decline in the prices of Russian debt and equity securities and the inability of Russian issuers to raise funds in the international capital markets. These problems were aggravated by the near collapse of the Russian banking sector in connection with the same events. This further impaired the ability of the banking sector to act as a reliable source of liquidity to Russian companies and resulted in the widespread loss of bank deposits. In response to the global economic crisis in 2008 and 2009, the Russian government implemented a range of anti-crisis measures, however, the Russian economy has still not fully recovered from the economic crisis. As Russia produces and exports large quantities of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products and other commodities, the Russian economy is particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in oil and gas prices as well as other commodities prices, which have experienced significant volatility during the global financial crisis beginning in the second half of 2008. More recently, during the second half of 2014, due to rising U.S. oil production driven by the shale boom and slowing demand growth in Asia and Europe, oil prices dropped more than 50%, reaching record lows, according to New York Times. The price of the global benchmark Brent crude has fallen from U.S.$111/bbl on 30 June 2014 to U.S.$55/bbl on 31 December 2014. According to multiple sources, this trend may be expected to continue at least in the near term, in particular due to the November 27, 2014 decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, the cartel which controls 40% of the world’s oil production, not to cut oil production levels. According to both analysts and Russian officials and government authorities, including the CBR, Russia is expected to enter recession in 2015 with a significant drop in GDP, the length and full effect of which cannot be predicted at this time. Due to these and other factors, including the economic sanctions imposed on certain Russian companies and individuals by the U.S., EU, Canada and other countries, since the beginning of 2014, the ruble has significantly depreciated. 31 Table of Contents The declines had become so precipitous that the CBR raised its key rate several times throughout the year, until it reached 17% in December 2014, although it was subsequently reduced to 15% in January 2015. On November 10, 2014, the CBR announced that it had abandoned the ruble’s trading corridor that it had maintained since 2008, allowing the currency to float freely, and would intervene in the foreign currency market only if it saw a threat to financial stability. In light of the current economic slowdown facing Russia and the sharp fall in the value of the ruble, there have been suggestions that the Russian authorities may impose restrictions on the convertibility of capital in an effort to stabilize the value of the ruble, potentially adversely affecting the ability of foreign companies such as ourselves to procure dividend payments from our Russian subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that this or any other measures will ultimately prove successful. A sustained or continued depreciation of the ruble may curb consumer spending and result in a general decline of the Russian economy. The weakening of the Russian economy has led to high volatility in the markets for Russian debt and equity securities, reductions in foreign investment and sharp capital outflow. There can be no assurance that any response by the Russian government to current economic challenges will adequately ameliorate the situation and prevent a further decline in the Russian economy. These and other factors have also led the international rating agencies to lower the Russian Federation credit ratings: on January 26, 2015 S&P cut its long-term foreign currency sovereign bound rating for the Russian Federation to ‘BB+’ with negative outlook, and on February 20, 2015 Moody’s cut its sovereign debt rating for the Russian Federation to Ba1 with negative outlook; each of these ratings is below ‘investment grade’. Credit ratings for a number of Russian companies and banks have been lowered in the past months, another factor contributing to an increased cost of capital in the Russian economy. In a forecast released on February 16, 2015, the Russian Ministry of Economic Development predicted inflation at 17-17.5% for the first quarter of 2015 year-on-year; and for the year 2015; inflation at 12-12.4% (with food inflation expected to be greater), real wages declining 9.6% and disposable incomes decreasing 6.3%. Any further decreases or fluctuations in world commodity prices, or, more generally, any further deterioration of general economic conditions in Russia could adversely influence the economic stability and demand for various products and services, including those sold by us, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The macroeconomic slowdown in Russia, caused among other things by dropping oil prices and sanctions regime, which effectively limited the access to liquidity of the key Russian banks led to liquidity shortage in the market we operate. In addition, Central Bank of Russia while trying to prevent further devaluation of ruble increased the short-term ruble borrowing rate to 17%. This exacerbated the liquidity shortage on the market. As a consequence, banks and businesses in Russia substantially decreased credit limits in their everyday operations. We noted that our merchants and partners started since the end of 2014 to request from us larger collaterals to hedge their risks. We were able to manage these new requirements to date, though the liquidity shortage in the market may further exacerbate and consequently it may have further negative effects on our operations which cannot be now reliably estimated. The banking system in Russia remains underdeveloped. The banking and other financial systems in Russia are not well-developed or regulated, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretation and inconsistent application. The 1998 financial crisis resulted in the bankruptcy and liquidation of many Russian banks and almost entirely eliminated the developing market for commercial bank loans at that time. From April to July 2004, the Russian banking sector experienced further serious turmoil. As a result of various market rumors and certain regulatory and liquidity problems, several privately owned Russian banks experienced liquidity problems and were unable to attract funds on the inter-bank market or from their client base. Simultaneously, they faced large withdrawals of deposits by both retail and corporate customers. Several of these privately owned Russian banks collapsed or ceased or severely limited their operations. Russian banks owned or controlled by the government and foreign owned banks generally were not adversely affected by the turmoil. There are currently a limited number of creditworthy Russian banks (most of which are headquartered in Moscow). Although the CBR has the mandate and authority to suspend banking licences of insolvent banks, many insolvent banks still operate. Many Russian banks also do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector in some respects still lags behind internationally accepted norms. Banking supervision is also often inadequate, as a result of which many banks do not follow existing CBR regulations with respect to lending criteria, credit quality, loan loss reserves, diversification of exposure or other requirements. The imposition of more stringent regulations or interpretations could lead to weakened capital adequacy and the insolvency of some banks. Prior to the onset of the 2008 global economic crisis, there had been a rapid increase in lending by Russian banks, which many believe had been accompanied by a 32 Table of Contents deterioration in the credit quality of the loan portfolio of those banks. In addition, a robust domestic corporate debt market was leading Russian banks to hold increasingly large amounts of Russian corporate ruble bonds in their portfolios, which further deteriorated the risk profile of the assets of Russian banks. The global financial crisis of 2007-2008 has led to the collapse or bailout of some Russian banks and to significant liquidity constraints for others. Profitability levels of most Russian banks have been adversely affected. Indeed, the global crisis has prompted the government to inject substantial funds into the banking system amid reports of difficulties among Russian banks and other financial institutions. In October 2013 – February 2015 a very significant number of Russian banks, including Master-Bank, Investbank and SB-Bank, had their banking licenses revoked, which resulted in turmoil in the industry, instigated a banking panic and bank runs on a number of Russian credit institutions, and severely undermined the trust that the Russian population had with private banks. It could be expected that the difficulties currently faced by the Russian economy could result in further collapses of Russian banks, particularly those heavily exposed to the retail lending sector, as non-performing consumer loans have increased significantly and demand has shrunk due to more cautious consumer spending. According to the CBR, the level of non-performing loans in the Russian banking sector has increased from 5.8% in January 2014 to 8.1% in December 2014. The CBR’s December 2014 RUB 127 billion bail-out of Trust Bank, Russia’s 22nd largest bank by assets, may be symptomatic of weaknesses in the Russian banking sector. With few exceptions (notably the state-owned banks), the Russian banking system suffers from weak depositor confidence, high concentration of exposure to certain borrowers and their affiliates, poor credit quality of borrowers and related party transactions. Current economic circumstances in Russia are likely to put stress on the Russian banking system in 2015. We periodically hold funds in a number of Russian banks and are dependent on the banking industry for our revenue from Financial services. The bankruptcy or insolvency of one or more of these banks could adversely affect our business. The continuation or worsening of the banking crisis could decrease our transaction volumes, while the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the banks which hold our funds could prevent us from accessing our funds for several days. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Social instability could lead to labor and social unrest, increased support for renewed centralized authority, nationalism or violence. Failures to adequately address social problems have led in the past, and could lead in the future, to labor and social unrest. Labor and social unrest could have political, social and economic consequences, such as increased support for a renewal of centralized authority; increased nationalism, with support for re-nationalization of property, or expropriation of or restrictions on foreign involvement in the economy of Russia; and increased violence. Any of these could have an adverse effect on confidence in Russia’s social environment and the value of investments in Russia, could restrict our operations and lead to a loss of revenue, and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Russia has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. As a substantial portion of our expenses (including operating costs and capital expenditures) are denominated in rubles, the relative movement of inflation and exchange rates significantly affects our results of operations. The effects of inflation could cause some of our costs to rise. Russia has experienced high levels of inflation since the early 1990s. For example, inflation increased dramatically after the 1998 financial crisis, reaching a rate of 84.4% in that year. According to Rosstat, inflation in the Russian Federation was 6.6% in 2012, 6.5% in 2013 and 11.4% in 2014. Higher levels of inflation are expected in the future as Russian economy enters a difficult period. Certain of our costs, such as salaries and rent, are affected by inflation in Russia. To the extent the inflation causes these costs to increase, such inflation may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The immaturity of legal systems, processes and practices in the Russian Federation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with the legal systems of the Russian Federation include, to varying degrees, inconsistencies between and among laws, presidential decrees, edicts and governmental and ministerial orders and resolutions; conflicting local, regional, and federal rules and regulations; the lack of judicial or administrative guidance regarding the interpretation of the applicable rules; the untested nature of the independence of the judiciary and its immunity from political, social and commercial influences; the relative inexperience of jurists, judges and courts in interpreting recently enacted legislation and complex commercial arrangements; a high degree of unchecked discretion on the part of governmental authorities; alleged corruption within the judiciary and governmental authorities; substantial gaps in the regulatory structure due to delays in or 33 Table of Contents absence of implementing regulations; bankruptcy procedures that are not well-developed and are subject to abuse; and a lack of binding judicial precedent. All of these weaknesses affect our ability to protect and enforce our legal rights, including rights under contracts, and to defend against claims by others. In addition, the recent merger of the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation, which used to oversee business disputes, into the Supreme Court, which used to only handle criminal cases and civil lawsuits, is viewed by some as having further aggravated these issues. The Russian judicial system is not immune from economic and political influences. The Russian court system is understaffed and underfunded, and the quality of justice, duration of legal proceedings, and performance of courts and enforcement of judgments remain problematic. Under Russian legislation, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions and are not recognised as a source of law. However, in practice, courts usually consider judicial precedents in their decisions. Enforcement of court judgments can in practice be very difficult and time-consuming in Russia. Additionally, court claims are sometimes used in furtherance of political and commercial aims. All of these factors can make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and make effective redress problematic in certain instances. The relatively recent enactment of many laws, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of political and economic reform and the rapid evolution of legal systems in ways that may not always coincide with market developments have resulted in legal ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies and, in certain cases, the enactment of laws without a clear constitutional or legislative basis. Legal and bureaucratic obstacles and corruption exist to varying degrees in each of the regions in which we operate, and these factors are likely to hinder our further development. These characteristics give rise to investment risks that do not exist in countries with more developed legal systems. The developing nature of the legal systems in Russia could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business. Governmental authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and at times appear to act selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and in a manner that is contrary to law or influenced by political or commercial considerations. Moreover, the Russian Government also has the power in certain circumstances, by regulation or government act, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary governmental actions have reportedly included denial or withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities also appear to have used common defects in matters surrounding share issuances and registration as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate the issuances or registrations or to void transactions, seemingly for political purposes. Moreover, selective, public criticism by Russian Government officials of Russian companies has in the past caused the price of publicly traded securities in such Russian companies to sharply decline, and there is no assurance that any such public criticism by Russian Government officials in the future will not have the same negative affect. Standard & Poors has expressed concerns that “Russian companies and their investors can be subjected to government pressure through selective implementation of regulations and legislation that is either politically motivated or triggered by competing business groups”. In this environment, our competitors could receive preferential treatment from the government, potentially giving them a competitive advantage. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary governmental action, if directed at our operations in Russia, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian companies can be forced into liquidation on the basis of formal non-compliance with certain requirements of Russian law. Certain provisions of Russian law may allow a court to order the liquidation of a Russian legal entity on the basis of its formal non-compliance with certain requirements during formation, reorganization or during its operation. There have been cases in the past in which formal deficiencies in the establishment process of a Russian legal entity or non-compliance with provisions of Russian law have been used by Russian courts as a basis for the liquidation of a legal entity. Weaknesses in the Russian legal system create an uncertain legal environment, which makes the decisions of a Russian court or a governmental authority difficult, if not impossible, to predict. If any of our operating subsidiaries incorporated in Russia were subject to involuntary liquidation, such liquidation could lead to significant negative consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, under Russian corporate law, negative net assets calculated on the basis of the Russian accounting standards as of the end of the year following the second or any subsequent year of a company’s existence can serve as a basis for creditors to accelerate their claims and to demand payment of damages, as well as for a court to order the liquidation of the company upon a claim by governmental authorities. Many Russian companies have negative net assets due to very low historical value of property, plant and equipment reflected on their Russian accounting standards balance sheets. However, 34 Table of Contents their solvency (defined as their ability to pay debts as they come due) is not otherwise adversely affected by such negative net assets. There are cases when courts have ordered mandatory liquidation of a company based on its negative net assets, though such company had continued to fulfill its obligations and had net assets in excess of the required minimum at the time of liquidation. Shareholder liability under Russian corporate law could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries. Russian law generally provides that shareholders in a Russian joint-stock company or participants in a limited liability company are not liable for that company’s obligations and risk only the loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one company (the “effective parent”) is capable of making decisions for another (the “effective subsidiary”). Under certain circumstances, the effective parent bears joint and several responsibility for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out such decisions. In addition, under Russian law, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary’s debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action of an effective parent. In these instances, the other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary’s losses from the effective parent that causes the effective subsidiary to take action or fail to take action knowing that such action or failure to take action would result in losses. We could be found to be the effective parent of our subsidiaries, in which case we would become liable for their debts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Taxation Weaknesses and changes in the Russian tax system could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of investments in Russia. We are subject to a broad range of taxes and other compulsory payments imposed at federal, regional and local levels, including, but not limited to, profits tax, VAT, corporate property tax and social contributions. Tax laws, such as the Russian Tax Code, have been in force for a short period relative to tax laws in more developed market economies, and the implementation of these tax laws is often unclear or inconsistent. Historically, the system of tax collection has been relatively ineffective, resulting in continual changes to the interpretation of existing laws. Although the quality of Russian tax legislation has generally improved with the introduction of the first and second parts of the Russian Tax Code, the possibility exists that Russia may impose arbitrary or onerous taxes and penalties in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large number of changes have been made to various chapters of the Russian Tax Code since their introduction. Since Russian federal, regional and local tax laws and regulations are subject to changes and some of the sections of the Russian Tax Code relating to the aforementioned taxes are comparatively new, interpretation of these regulations is often unclear or non-existent. Also, different interpretations of tax regulations exist both among and within government bodies at the federal, regional and local levels which creates uncertainties and inconsistent enforcement. The current practice is that private clarifications to specific taxpayers’ queries with respect to particular situations issued by the Russian Ministry of Finance are not binding on the Russian tax authorities and there can be no assurance that the Russian tax authorities will not take positions contrary to those set out in such clarifications. During the past several years the Russian tax authorities have shown a tendency to take more assertive positions in their interpretation of the tax legislation which has led to an increased number of material tax assessments issued by them as a result of tax audits. In practice, the Russian tax authorities generally interpret the tax laws in ways that do not favor taxpayers, who often have to resort to court proceedings against the Russian tax authorities to defend their position. In some instances Russian tax authorities have applied new interpretations of tax laws retroactively. There is no established precedent or consistent court practice in respect of these issues. Furthermore, in the absence of binding precedent, court rulings on tax or other related matters by different courts relating to the same or similar circumstances may also be inconsistent or contradictory. Taxpayers often have to resort to court proceedings to defend their position against the tax authorities. The Russian tax authorities are increasingly taking a “substance over form” approach. While certain reductions in the rates, such as for profits tax, have been effected, it is expected that Russian tax legislation will become more sophisticated. The possibility exists that the Government may introduce additional revenue-raising measures. Although it is unclear how such measures would operate, the introduction of any such measures may affect the Group’s overall tax efficiency and may result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. There can be no assurance that the Russian Tax Code will not be changed in the future in a manner adverse to the stability and predictability of the tax system. These factors, together with the potential for state budget deficits, raise the risk of the imposition of additional taxes on us. The introduction of new taxes or amendments to current taxation rules may have a substantial impact on the overall amount of our tax liabilities. There is no assurance that we would not be required to make substantially larger tax payments in the future, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Our business may be deemed to receive unjustified tax benefits. In its decision No 138-0 dated July 25, 2001, the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, or the Constitutional Court, introduced the concept of “a taxpayer acting in a bad faith” without clearly stipulating the criteria for it. Similarly, this concept is not defined in Russian tax law. Nonetheless, this concept has been used by the tax authorities to deny, for instance, the taxpayer’s right to rely on the provisions of the tax law. The tax authorities and courts often exercise significant discretion in interpreting this concept in a manner that is unfavorable to taxpayers. On October 12, 2006, the Plenum of the Higher Arbitrazh Court of the Russian Federation, or the Higher Arbitrazh Court, issued Ruling No. 53, formulating the concept of an “unjustified tax benefit” which is defined in the ruling mainly by reference to specific examples of such tax benefits (e.g., tax benefits obtained as a result of a transaction that has no reasonable business purpose) which may lead to disallowance of their application. There is growing practice of the interpretation of this concept by the tax authorities or the courts and it is apparent that the tax authorities actively seek to apply this concept when challenging tax positions taken by taxpayers. Although the intention of Ruling No. 53 was to combat the abuse of tax law, based on cases brought to courts to date relating to Ruling No. 53, the tax authorities have started applying the “unjustified tax benefit” concept in a broader sense than may have been intended by the Higher Arbitrazh Court. In particular, we are aware of cases when this concept has been applied by the tax authorities in order to disallow benefits granted by double tax treaties. To date, in the majority of cases where this concept has been applied, the courts have ruled in favor of taxpayers, but it is not possible to determine whether the courts will follow these precedents in the future. On May 23, 2014 a new draft law introducing a concept of “anti-abuse” to the Russian Tax Code was submitted to the lower chamber of the Russian parliament. The draft law defines “abuse” as carrying out activities and transactions or actions (failure to act) with the main purpose to avoid entirely or partially tax liabilities or obtaining a tax refund (credit). It is not clear if the draft is adopted in its current version, and how the relevant amendments to the Russian Tax Code will be interpreted and applied by the tax authorities and/ or courts in practice. In addition to the usual tax burden imposed on Russian taxpayers, these conditions complicate tax planning and related business decisions. This uncertainty could possibly expose our group to significant fines and penalties and to enforcement measures, despite our best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden. Our Russian subsidiaries are subject to tax audits by Russian tax authorities which may result in additional tax liabilities. Tax declarations together with related documentation are subject to review and investigation by a number of authorities, which are enabled by Russian law to impose substantial fines and interest charges. Generally, taxpayers are subject to tax audits for a period of three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which the decision to conduct the audit is taken. Nevertheless in some cases the fact that a tax period has been reviewed by the tax authorities does not prevent further review of that tax period, or any tax declaration applicable to that tax period. In addition, on July 14, 2005, the Constitutional Court issued a decision that allows the statute of limitations for tax penalties to be extended beyond the three-year term set forth in the Tax Code if a court determines that a taxpayer has obstructed or hindered a field tax audit. Moreover, amendments introduced to the first part of the Russian Tax Code which came into effect on January 1, 2007 provide for the extension of the three year statute of limitations for tax liabilities if the actions of the taxpayer create insurmountable obstacles for the tax audit. Because none of the relevant terms is defined in Russian law, the tax authorities may have broad discretion to argue that a taxpayer has “obstructed” or “hindered” or “created insurmountable obstacles” in respect of an audit, effectively linking any difficulty experienced in the course of their tax audit with obstruction by the taxpayer and use that as a basis to seek tax adjustments and penalties beyond the three-year term. Therefore, the statute of limitations is not entirely effective. Tax audits may result in additional costs to our group if the relevant tax authorities conclude that our Russian entities did not satisfy their tax obligations in any given year. Such audits may also impose additional burdens on our group by diverting the attention of management resources. The outcome of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our companies established outside of Russia may be exposed to taxation in Russia. Due to our international structure, we are subject to permanent establishment and transfer pricing risks in various jurisdictions in which we operate. We manage the related risks by looking at management functions and risks in various countries and level of profits allocated to each subsidiary. If additional taxes are assessed with respect to these matters, they may be material. 36 Table of Contents The Russian Tax Code contains the concept of a permanent establishment in Russia as means for taxing foreign legal entities which carry on regular entrepreneurial activities in Russia beyond preparatory and auxiliary activities. The Russian double tax treaties with other countries also contain a similar concept. If a foreign company is treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia, it would be subject to Russian taxation in a manner broadly similar to the taxation of a Russian legal entity, but only to the extent of the amount of the foreign company’s income that is attributable to the permanent establishment in Russia. However, the practical application of the concept of a permanent establishment under Russian domestic law is not well developed and so foreign companies having even limited operations in Russia, which would not normally satisfy the conditions for creating a permanent establishment under international norms, may be at risk of being treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia and hence being exposed to Russian taxation. Furthermore, the Russian Tax Code contains attribution rules which are not sufficiently developed and there is a risk that the tax authorities might seek to assess Russian tax on the global income of a foreign company. Having a permanent establishment in Russia may also lead to other adverse tax implications, including challenging a reduced withholding tax rate on dividends under an applicable double tax treaty, potential effect on VAT and property tax obligations. There is also a risk that penalties could be imposed by the tax authorities for failure to register a permanent establishment with the Russian tax authorities. Recent events in Russia suggest that the tax authorities may more actively be seeking to investigate and assert whether foreign entities of our group, operate through a permanent establishment in Russia. Any such taxes or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian tax legislation in effect as of the date of this annual report does not contain a concept of corporate tax residency. Russian companies are taxed on their worldwide income while foreign entities are taxed in Russia on income attributable to a permanent establishment and on Russian source income. The Russian government in its Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2013 and the planned period of 2014-2015 has proposed the introduction of the concept of tax residency for legal entities to the domestic tax law. The latest Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2014 and the planned period of 2015-2016 contain a similar proposal. According to the proposals, a legal entity would be deemed a Russian tax resident based on a few criteria that would be in line with international tax treaties of the Russian Federation. Moreover, on December 12, 2013 the Russian President included in his annual address to the Russian Federal Assembly a message aiming at introducing of rules that could allow taxation of unallocated profits of the controlled foreign companies in Russia. The new rules may be developed by July 1, 2014. No assurance can be currently given as to whether and when these amendments will be enacted, their exact nature, their potential interpretation by the tax authorities and the possible impact on us. We cannot rule out the possibility that, as a result of the introduction of changes to Russian tax legislation, certain of our companies established outside Russia might be deemed to be Russian tax residents, subject to all applicable Russian taxes. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining lower rates of Russian withholding income tax envisaged by the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty for dividends distributed from Russia. Dividends paid by a Russian legal entity to a foreign legal entity are generally subject to Russian withholding income tax at a rate of 15%, although this tax rate may be reduced under an applicable double tax treaty. We intend to rely on the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty. The tax treaty allows reduction of withholding income tax on dividends paid by a Russian company to a Cypriot company to 10% provided that the following conditions are met: (i) the Cypriot company is a tax resident of Cyprus within the meaning of the tax treaty; (ii) the Cypriot company is the beneficial owner of the dividends; (iii) the dividends are not attributable to a permanent establishment of the Cypriot company in Russia; and (iv) the treaty clearance procedures are duly performed. This rate may be further reduced to 5% if the direct investment of the Cypriot company in a Russian subsidiary paying the dividends is at least €100,000. Although we will seek to claim treaty protection, there is a risk that the applicability of the reduced rate of 5% or 10% may be challenged by Russian tax authorities. As a result, there can be no assurance that we would be able to avail ourselves of the reduced withholding income tax rate in practice. Specifically, our Cypriot holding company may incur a 15% withholding income tax at source on dividend payments from Russian subsidiaries if the treaty clearance procedures are not duly performed at the date when the dividend payment is made. In this case we may seek to claim as a refund the difference between the 15% tax withheld and the reduced rate of 10% or 5% as appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that such taxes would be refunded in practice. Russian withholding tax may also be applied when dividends are received from Russian subsidiaries by the company’s non-Russian subsidiaries. Although we intend to rely on an applicable double tax treaty between Russia and the country where the relevant non-Russian subsidiary is resident, no assurance can be given that the reduced withholding tax rate would apply. In this respect it should be noted that in May 2009 the President of the Russian Federation included in his Budget Message regarding the Budget Policy for 2010-2012 a proposal to introduce an anti-avoidance mechanism with respect to double tax treaty benefits in cases where the ultimate beneficiaries of income do not reside in the relevant tax treaty jurisdiction. Currently, such a mechanism has not been introduced. Furthermore, the Russian Ministry of Finance has issued a number of clarifications with respect to the tax treaty concept of “beneficial ownership”. Although the clarifications up to the date of this annual report have been of limited use, they 37 Table of Contents demonstrate an attempt by the Russian tax authorities to address the question of beneficial ownership of income in international financial transactions and holding structures. Due to the fact that some of our companies are located outside Russia, the future development and application of the “beneficial ownership” concept to those companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In August 2011 the Russian government proposed in its Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2012 and the planned period of 2013-2014, or the Directions, legislative changes concerning an anti-avoidance mechanism with respect to double tax treaty benefits in cases where ultimate beneficiaries of income do not reside in the relevant double tax treaty country. Moreover, in the Directions the Russian government has stated publicly that it plans to amend the Russian Tax Code and establish the rules on controlled foreign companies. The latest Main Directions of Russian Tax Policy for 2014 and the planned period of 2015-2016 contain similar proposals and measures. Based on the President’s December 2013 address to the Federal Assembly, such rules may be developed by July 1, 2014. It is not clear whether and when these amendments may be introduced or how they may be interpreted and applied by the tax authorities and/ or courts in practice and what effect it may have on taxpayers. If and when enacted, such amendments may result in the inability of the foreign companies within our group to claim benefits under a double taxation treaty through structures which historically have benefited from double taxation treaty protection in Russia. The imposition of additional tax liabilities as a result of the application of this rule to transactions carried out by us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian transfer pricing legislation may require pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities with respect to all controlled transactions. Russian transfer pricing legislation became effective in the Russian Federation on January 1, 1999. This legislation allowed the tax authorities to make transfer-pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities in respect of certain types of transactions (“controlled” transactions). Special transfer pricing provisions were established for operations with securities and derivatives. However, Russian transfer pricing rules were vaguely drafted, generally leaving wide scope for interpretation by Russian tax authorities and courts. There was little guidance (although some court decisions are available) as to how these rules should be applied. Following the adoption of Federal Law No. 227-FZ “On amendments to certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation in connection with the improvement of pricing principles” dated July 18, 2011, the new transfer pricing rules became effective from January 1, 2012. Compared to the previous Russian transfer pricing rules, the new rules are more technically elaborate and, to a certain extent, better aligned with the international transfer pricing principles developed by the OECD. The list of the “controlled” transactions under the new transfer pricing legislation includes transactions with related parties and certain types of cross border transactions. The amendments have toughened considerably the previous transfer pricing rules, by, among other things, effectively shifting the burden of proving market prices from the tax authorities to the taxpayer and obliging the taxpayer to keep specific documentation. The new rules also permit taxpayers to enter into advance pricing agreements with the tax authorities; however, it is unclear how such agreements will operate in practice. Special transfer pricing rules continue to apply to transactions with securities and derivatives. It is currently difficult to evaluate what effect these new provisions may have on us. Currently the tax authorities perform tax audits of many Russian taxpayers with major focus on compliance with new transfer pricing legislation. It is therefore possible that the Group entities may become subject to transfer pricing tax audits by tax authorities in the near future. Due to the uncertainty and lack of established practice of application of the new Russian transfer pricing legislation the Russian tax authorities may challenge the level of prices applied by the Group under the “controlled” transactions (including certain intercompany transactions) and accrue additional tax liabilities. If additional taxes are assessed with respect to these matters, they may be material. The Management believes that the Group is able to prove the arms’ length nature of prices with respect to the “controlled” transactions, and that there has been proper reporting to the Russian tax authorities, supported by appropriate available transfer pricing documentation. ADS holders outside of Russia may be subject to Russian tax for income earned upon a sale, exchange or disposal of our ADSs. In the event that the proceeds from a sale, exchange or disposal of ADSs are deemed to be received from a source within Russia, a non-resident holder that is an individual may be subject to Russian tax in respect of such proceeds at a rate of 30% of the gain (such gain being computed as the sales price less any available documented cost deduction, including the acquisition price of the ADSs and other documented expenses, such as depositary expenses and brokers’ fees), subject to any available double tax treaty relief, provided that the necessary requirements to qualify for the treaty relief and the appropriate administrative requirements under the Russian tax legislation have been met. For example, holders of ADSs that are eligible for the benefits of the United States-Russia 38 Table of Contents double tax treaty should generally not be subject to tax in Russia on any gain arising from the disposal of ADSs, provided that the gain is not attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed base that is or was located in Russia and/or provided that less than 50% of our fixed assets consist of immovable property situated in Russia (as defined in the treaty). Because the determination of whether 50% or more of our fixed assets consist of immovable property situated in Russia is inherently factual and is made on an on-going basis, and because the relevant Russian legislation and regulations are not entirely clear, there can be no assurance that immovable property situated in Russia does not currently, or will not, constitute 50% or more of our assets. If 50% or more of our assets were to consist of immovable property situated in Russia, the benefits of the United States-Russia double tax treaty may not be available to an ADS holder. Changes in the double tax treaty between Russia and Cyprus may significantly increase our tax burden. A company that is tax resident in Cyprus is subject to Cypriot taxation and qualifies for benefits available under the Cypriot tax treaty network, including the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty. We can provide no assurance that the double tax treaty will not be renegotiated or revoked. Adverse changes in, or the cancellation of, the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty may significantly increase our tax burden and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be deemed to be a tax resident outside of Cyprus. According to the provisions of the Cyprus Income Tax Law, a company is considered to be a resident of Cyprus for tax purposes if its management and control are exercised in Cyprus. The concept of “management and control” is not defined in the Cypriot tax legislation, however, it is generally considered that a company is managed and controlled in Cyprus through the decision making power of its board of directors being exercised in Cyprus. Where, as with our company, the majority of the board of directors is comprised of tax residents of Russia, there may be increased risk that the company is not managed and controlled in Cyprus and, therefore, not a tax resident in Cyprus. If we are deemed not to be a tax resident in Cyprus, we may not be subject to the Cypriot tax regime other than in respect of Cyprus sourced income and we may be subject to the tax regime of the country in which we are deemed to be a tax resident. Further, we would not be eligible for benefits under the tax treaties entered into between Cyprus and other countries. If applicable Russian law is amended so that a company that is a tax resident in Cyprus can also be considered a tax resident of Russia, the tax treaty in force between Cyprus and Russia provides that such a company shall be deemed to be a tax resident of the state in which the place of effective management of the company is situated. A protocol to this treaty was signed in October 2010 and ratified by Cyprus in September 2011 and the Russian Duma in February 2012. This protocol provides that the process of determining the effective management in this case will be achieved through the two states endeavoring to determine the place of effective management by mutual agreement having regard to all relevant factors. Where the majority of our board of directors comprises tax residents or citizens of Russia, this may pose a risk that we, even if we are managed and controlled in Cyprus and therefore a tax resident in Cyprus, may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia or elsewhere. Such a permanent establishment could be subject to taxation of the jurisdiction of the permanent establishment on the profits allocable to the permanent establishment. If we are tax resident in a jurisdiction outside of Cyprus or are deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia or elsewhere, our tax burden may increase significantly, which, in turn, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to defense tax in Cyprus. Cypriot companies must pay a Special Contribution for the Defense Fund of the Republic of Cyprus, or the defense tax, at a rate of 17% on deemed dividend distributions to the extent that their ultimate beneficial owners are Cypriot tax residents. A Cypriot company that does not distribute at least 70% of its after tax profits within two years from the end of the year in which the profits arose, is deemed to have distributed this amount as a dividend two years after that year end. The amount of this deemed dividend distribution, subject to the defense tax, is reduced by any actual dividend paid out of the profits of the relevant year at any time up to the date of the deemed distribution and the resulting balance of profits will be subject to the defense tax to the extent of the appropriation of shares held in the company at that time by Cyprus tax residents. The profits to be taken into account in determining the deemed dividend do not include fair value adjustments to any movable or immovable property. The defense tax payable as a result of a deemed dividend distribution is paid in the first instance by the company which may recover such payment from its Cypriot shareholders by deducting the amount from an actual dividend paid to such shareholders from the relevant profits. To the extent that we are unable to recover this amount due to a change in shareholders or no actual dividend is ever paid out of the relevant profits, we will suffer the cost of this defense tax. Imposition of this tax could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to recover the tax from shareholders as described above. 39 Table of Contents In September 2011, the Commissioner of the Inland Revenue Department of Cyprus issued Circular 2011/10, which exempted from the defense tax any profits of a company that is tax resident in Cyprus imputed indirectly to shareholders that are themselves tax resident in Cyprus to the extent that these profits are indirectly apportioned to shareholders who are ultimately not Cyprus tax residents. Depending upon the value and the nature of our assets and the amount and nature of our income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (a) 50% or more of the fair market value of our gross assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) for the taxable year produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income, or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. As a publicly traded foreign corporation we intend for this purpose to treat the aggregate fair market value of our gross assets as being equal to the aggregate value of our outstanding stock (“market capitalization”) plus the total amount of our liabilities and to treat the excess of the fair market value of our assets over their book value as a nonpassive asset to the extent attributable to our nonpassive income. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents and other passive assets used in our business, and because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization securities, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if the market price of our ADSs were to decrease significantly. The application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for such year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs, the U.S. investor might be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and to additional reporting obligations. We do not intend to provide the information necessary for the U.S. investor to make a qualified electing fund election with respect to our ADSs. See “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Our interest expenses may not be deductible. In May 2012, the House of Representatives of Cyprus enacted laws, effective as of January 1, 2012, which provide that if a Cyprus parent company incurs an interest expense on the acquisition of shares of a company that is a wholly-owned subsidiary (whether directly or indirectly and irrespective of whether the subsidiary is a Cyprus or foreign company), the interest expense will now be deductible for tax purposes by the parent company. This deduction will only be available provided the subsidiary owns assets that are used in its business and the amount of interest deducted is limited and proportionate to the amount and value of assets used in the business. If we are unable to deduct our interest expenses for tax purposes, our results of operations and financial conditions may be materially adversely affected. Adverse financial measures may be adopted in Cyprus in connection with its bailout. In June 2012, the government of Cyprus applied for financial assistance from the European Central Bank, the EU and the IMF, together referred to as the Troika. On April 12, 2013, the government of Cyprus and the Troika reached an agreement regarding the provision of a EUR 10 billion loan and related finance package to Cyprus, such loan and finance package being conditioned on Cyprus implementing a comprehensive economic adjustment program, or the Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program. The Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program included a scheme for the reorganization of the Cypriot banking system whereby Bank of Cyprus plc, or BoC, Cyprus’ largest bank and Cyprus Popular Bank Public Co Ltd, or Cyprus Popular Bank, Cyprus’ second largest bank were placed in resolution pursuant to applicable legislation, referred to herein as the Resolution Process. As a result of the Resolution Process, Cyprus Popular Bank was absorbed by BoC and deposit holders with credit balances in excess of EUR 100,000 (referred to herein as the Uninsured Deposits) held with Cyprus Popular Bank and BoC suffered significant losses. Additionally, restrictions on bank transfers and withdrawals from banking institutions in Cyprus are in effect as at the date hereof in order to enable Cyprus to implement the Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program. On July 30, 2013, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Cyprus announced that the BoC has been fully recapitalised by the overall conversion of 47.5% of Uninsured Deposits with the BoC into shares in BoC, thus bringing an end to the BoC’s Resolution Process. The measures implemented to date have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on holding companies, such as us, that do not have significant deposits in Cyprus banks or operations in Cyprus. However, further disruption to the Cyprus banking system, or additional changes to implement the Cyprus Economic Adjustment Program, are possible and we cannot be certain that such disruptions or changes will not adversely affect our financial condition or our shareholders who are not residents of Cyprus. 40 Table of Contents Our companies established outside of Russia may be exposed to taxation in Russia. Due to our international structure, we are subject to permanent establishment and transfer pricing risks in various jurisdictions in which we operate. We manage the related risks by looking at management functions and risks in various countries and level of profits allocated to each subsidiary. If additional taxes are assessed with respect to these matters, they may be material. The Russian Tax Code contains the concept of a permanent establishment in Russia as means for taxing foreign legal entities which carry on regular entrepreneurial activities in Russia beyond preparatory and auxiliary activities. The Russian double tax treaties with other countries also contain a similar concept. If a foreign company is treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia, it would be subject to Russian taxation in a manner broadly similar to the taxation of a Russian legal entity, but only to the extent of the amount of the foreign company’s income that is attributable to the permanent establishment in Russia. However, the practical application of the concept of a permanent establishment under Russian domestic law is not well developed and so foreign companies having even limited operations in Russia, which would not normally satisfy the conditions for creating a permanent establishment under international norms, may be at risk of being treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia and hence being exposed to Russian taxation. Furthermore, the Russian Tax Code contains attribution rules which are not sufficiently developed and there is a risk that the tax authorities might seek to assess Russian tax on the global income of a foreign company. Having a permanent establishment in Russia may also lead to other adverse tax implications, including challenging a reduced withholding tax rate on dividends under an applicable double tax treaty, potential effect on VAT and property tax obligations. There is also a risk that penalties could be imposed by the tax authorities for failure to register a permanent establishment with the Russian tax authorities. Recent events in Russia suggest that the tax authorities may more actively be seeking to investigate and assert whether foreign entities of our group, operate through a permanent establishment in Russia. Any such taxes or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining lower rates of Russian withholding income tax envisaged by the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty for dividends distributed from Russia. Dividends paid by a Russian legal entity to a foreign legal entity are generally subject to Russian withholding income tax at a rate of 15% or 30% in certain cases, although this tax rate may be reduced under an applicable double tax treaty. We intend to rely on the Russia-Cyprus double tax treaty. The tax treaty allows reduction of withholding income tax on dividends paid by a Russian company to a Cypriot company to 10% provided that the following conditions are met: (i) the Cypriot company is a tax resident of Cyprus within the meaning of the tax treaty; (ii) the Cypriot company is the beneficial owner of the dividends; (iii) the dividends are not attributable to a permanent establishment of the Cypriot company in Russia; and (iv) the treaty clearance procedures are duly performed. This rate may be further reduced to 5% if the direct investment of the Cypriot company in a Russian subsidiary paying the dividends is at least €100,000. Although we will seek to claim treaty protection, there is a risk that the applicability of the reduced rate of 5% or 10% may be challenged by Russian tax authorities. As a result, there can be no assurance that we would be able to avail ourselves of the reduced withholding income tax rate in practice. Specifically, our Cypriot holding company may incur a 15% withholding income tax at source on dividend payments from Russian subsidiaries if the treaty clearance procedures are not duly performed at the date when the dividend payment is made. In this case we may seek to claim as a refund the difference between the 15% tax withheld and the reduced rate of 10% or 5% as appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that such taxes would be refunded in practice. Russian Ministry of Finance in its Letter No. 03-00-P3/16236 of April 9, 2014 provided more detailed explanation of “beneficial ownership” concept, as well as pointed some examples of transactions, where beneficial ownership criteria were not met. Examples drawn by the Russian Ministry of Finance in the above letter included inter alia the case of dividends distributed to a non-resident that cannot demonstrate that it has sufficient authority with respect to dividends received, or is obliged to further distribute or pay dividends to third parties. Due to the fact that some of our companies are located outside Russia, future development and application of the “beneficial ownership” concept to those companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian anti-offshore measures may have adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Russian Federation, like a number of other countries in the world, is actively involved in discussion of measures against tax evasion through the use of low tax jurisdictions as well as aggressive tax planning structures. In 2014 significant changes to the Russian tax legislation were adopted which are aimed at preventing the abuse of “offshore” structures (so-called “de-offshorization” legislation). In particular, these changes include the definition of beneficiary ownership, tax residence of legal entities by the place of actual carrying out activities, as well as approach to taxation of controlled foreign 41 Table of Contents companies. The amendments came into force since January 1, 2015. The Group is currently evaluating the potential effect of the new legislative changes on the Group business and financial results. It is possible that these changes might have an impact on its financial results starting 2015, however, currently the effect of these amendments cannot be reliably estimated. In addition, on November 4, 2014 the Russian Federation ratified the multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters developed by the Council of Europe and the OECD, which the Russian Federation signed in 2011. Ratification of this Convention will enable the Russian Federation to receive tax information from all participating countries which include, among others, a number of offshore jurisdictions. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our ADSs The class B shares underlying the ADSs are not listed and may be illiquid. The class B shares underlying the ADSs are neither listed nor traded on any stock exchange, and we do not intend to apply for the listing or admission to trading of the class B shares on any stock exchange. As a result, a withdrawal of class B shares by a holder of ADSs, whether by election or due to certain other events will result in that holder obtaining securities that are significantly less liquid than the ADSs and the price of those class B shares may be discounted as a result of such withdrawal. Our ADSs trade on more than one market and this may result in increased volatility and price variations between such markets. Our ADSs trade on both Nasdaq and MOEX. Trading in our ADSs on these markets occurs in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and Russian rubles on MOEX) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Russia). The trading prices of our ADSs on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. The liquidity of trading in our ADSs on MOEX is limited. This may impair your ability to sell your ADSs on MOEX at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. In addition, trading of a small number of ADSs on that market could adversely impact the price of our ADSs significantly and could, in turn, impact the price in the United States. ADSs are completely fungible between both markets. Any decrease in the trading price of our ADSs on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary ADSs on the other market. Additionally, as there is no direct trading or settlement between the two stock markets, the time required to move the ADSs from one market to another may vary and there is no certainty of when ADSs that are moved will be available for trading or settlement. Future sales of ADSs or ordinary shares by significant shareholders could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If any of our significant shareholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our ADSs or ordinary shares, including both class A shares and class B shares, in the market, the trading price of our ADSs could decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of these ADSs or ordinary shares or the availability of these ADSs or ordinary shares for sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, we have outstanding 54, 557,520 ordinary shares, including those represented by ADSs. Of these, 36,033,561 ordinary shares are immediately freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. In addition, we have granted registration rights to Saldivar Investments Limited, Sergey A. Solonin, Antana International Corporation, Andrey N. Romanenko, Igor N. Mikhaylov, E1 Limited, Mail.ru Group Limited and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., who collectively own 100% of our class A shares and approximately 84% of the voting power of our issued share capital as of the date of this annual report, as well as to Dargle International Limited, Palmway Holdings Limited and Bralvo Limited, our former class A shareholders who, according to information available to us, own a certain amount of our ADSs as of the date of this annual report. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of the ADSs. 42 Table of Contents Investors in our ADSs may have limited recourse against us, our directors and executive officers because we conduct our operations outside the United States and most of our current directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Our presence outside the United States may limit investors’ legal recourse against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Cyprus. Almost all of our current directors and senior officers reside outside the United States, principally in the Russian Federation. Substantially all of our assets and the assets of our current directors and executive officers are located outside the United States, principally in the Russian Federation. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon our company or its directors and executive officers or to enforce U.S. court judgments obtained against our company or its directors and executive officers in Russia, Cyprus or other jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions under the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States, liabilities predicated upon US securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments in civil and commercial matters. These limitations may deprive investors of effective legal recourse for claims related to their investment in our ADSs. Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights in relation to future issuances of class B shares. In order to raise funding in the future, we may issue additional class B shares, including in the form of ADSs. Generally, existing holders of shares in Cypriot public companies are entitled by law to pre-emptive rights on the issue of new shares in that company (provided that such shares are paid in cash and the pre-emption rights have not been disapplied). Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for class B shares represented by ADSs unless applicable securities law requirements are adhered to or an exemption from such requirements is available. In the United States, we may be required to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to implement pre-emptive rights. We can give no assurance that an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act would be available to enable U.S. holders of ADSs to exercise such pre-emptive rights and, if such exemption is available, we may not take the steps necessary to enable U.S. holders of ADSs to rely on it. Accordingly, our ADS holders may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights on future issuances of shares, and, as a result, their percentage ownership interest in us would be reduced. In April 2013, our shareholders authorized the disapplication of pre-emptive rights for a period of five years from May 8, 2013, the date of the closing of our initial public offering, in connection with the issue of up to an additional 52,000,000 class B shares, including in the form of ADSs. Any issuances of class B shares for cash exceeding this amount during this five-year period would require disapplication of pre-emptive rights by the class B shareholders at such time. However, a Cyprus court or regulatory authority could determine that such waiver should not apply to an issuance of class B shares even if it is within such amount. If for any reason the disapplication of these rights proves to be ineffective or class B shareholders do not approve any further disapplication of pre-emptive rights that may be required, our ADS holders’ ability to participate in future issuances of class B shares, including in the form of ADSs, may be limited. Furthermore, rights offerings are difficult to implement effectively under the current U.S. securities laws and our ability to raise capital in the future may be compromised if we need to do so via a rights offering in the United States. ADS holders have no legal interest in the underlying class B shares. ADS holders acquire the beneficial, and not the legal, interest in the underlying class B shares, which the depositary holds on trust for them, under the terms of the deposit agreement. The intended effect of the trust is to ring-fence the class B shares in the hands of the depositary by conferring a property interest on ADS holders as beneficiaries. The interest of the ADS holders as beneficiaries in trust assets, which are the class B shares, is indirect, in the sense that in the normal course they do not have any direct recourse to the class B shares nor do they have any direct right of action against us. ADS holders may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. 43 Table of Contents 