ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Customers’ Industries Economic downturns could reduce capital expenditures in the industries we serve, which may result in a decrease in demand for our services. The demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. Given the recent financial market turmoil, our customers may not have the ability to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure, or may have difficulty in obtaining financing, which may result in cancellations of projects or deferral of projects to a later date. Such cancellations or deferrals could result in decreased demand for our services and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, our customers are affected by economic downturns that decrease the need for their services or the profitability of their services. Slow-downs in real estate, fluctuations in commodity prices and decreased demand by end-customers for services could affect our customers and their capital expenditure plans. Because we have been negatively impacted by previous economic downturns, we constantly monitor our customers’ industries and their relative health compared to the economy as a whole. Reductions in new housing starts, for example, have negatively affected our customers who utilize our services to construct their “last mile” of communications infrastructure, as well as other industries we serve, including electric utility transmission and grid connection, water and sewer and natural gas pipeline construction. Additionally, our customers who provide satellite and broadband communications to consumers across the country could be adversely impacted by an economic downturn if new subscriptions and upgrades for new and existing consumers are not ordered at the rate that our customers anticipate. During an economic downturn, like the current economic downturn, our customers also may not have the ability or desire to continue to fund capital expenditures for infrastructure or may determine to outsource less work. A decrease in any of these projects, new subscriptions and upgrades or any other services we provide could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our industry is highly competitive, which may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we compete with other companies in most of the markets in which we operate, ranging from small independent firms servicing local markets to larger firms servicing regional and national markets. We also face competition from existing or prospective customers that employ in-house personnel to perform some of the same types of services we provide. There are relatively few barriers to entry into certain of the markets in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise and skilled personnel may become one of our competitors. Most of our customers’ work is awarded through a bid process. Consequently, price is often the principal factor in determining which service provider is selected, especially on smaller, less complex projects. Smaller competitors are sometimes able to win bids for these projects based on price alone due to their lower costs and financial return requirements. If we are unsuccessful in bidding on these projects, or if our ability to win such projects requires that we accept lesser margins, then our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Many of the industries we serve are subject to consolidation and rapid technological and regulatory change, and our inability or failure to adjust to our customers’ changing needs could reduce demand for our services. We derive, and anticipate that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from customers in the communications and utilities industries. The communications and utilities industries are subject to rapid changes in technology and governmental regulation. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the services we provide. For example, new or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for the transmission of voice, video and data, and improvements in existing technology may allow communications providers to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Technological advances may also result in lower costs for sources of energy, which may render existing wind energy, solar energy and natural gas projects and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Additionally, the communications and utilities industries have 14 Table of Contents been characterized by a high level of consolidation that may result in the loss of one or more of our customers. Our failure to rapidly adopt and master new technologies as they are developed in any of the industries we serve or the consolidation of one or more of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers, and the loss of one of these customers or a reduction in their demand for our services could impair our financial performance. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 24%, 20% and 9% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, AT&T and El Paso Corporation, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we derived approximately 30%, 16%, 7% and 5% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, AT&T, Enbridge and Verizon, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 34%, 12% and 8% of our revenue from DIRECTV®, AT&T and Verizon, respectively. In addition, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 72% of our revenue in each of the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Because our business is concentrated among relatively few major customers, and certain of our services are provided on a non-recurring, project by project basis, we could experience a reduction in our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity if the amount of business we obtain from these customers is reduced, or if we complete the required work on our projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. We have recently experienced an increase in the proportion of our revenues from non-recurring project specific work, which may further increase this risk if we are not able to replace completed project work with new work. In addition, many of the contracts with our largest customers may be canceled on short or no advance notice. Any of these factors could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Additionally, pursuant to our February 2011 amended and restated purchase option agreement with Red Ventures LLC (“Red Ventures”), Red Ventures has an option to purchase DirectStar TV LLC (“DirectStar”) and its subsidiaries (which, in support of the DIRECTV® installation business, provides marketing and sales services on behalf of DIRECTV®) from MasTec at any time from March 1, 2012 to November 30, 2012, for an amount equal to the sum of: (i) the shareholders’ equity of DirectStar as of May 31, 2010, (ii) five percent (5%) of adjusted net income (generally, the net income (loss) before provision for income taxes) of DirectStar from January 1, 2010 until the last day of the month immediately prior to the date of the sale and (iii) $25,600,000. Should Red Ventures exercise its purchase option, our revenues and profits from DIRECTV® would be reduced. Most of our contracts do not obligate our customers to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. More than half of our revenue is derived from multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements. Under our multi-year master service agreements and other service agreements, we contract to provide customers with individual project services, through work orders, within defined geographic areas on a fixed fee basis. Under these agreements, our customers have no obligation to undertake any infrastructure projects or other work with us. A significant decline in the projects customers assign us under these service agreements could result in a decline in our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short or no advance notice, so our revenue is not guaranteed. Additionally, certain of our contracts with customers are subject to their ability to secure financing or other conditions and therefore may not result in revenues or profits. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short or no advance notice, ranging from immediate cancellation to cancellation upon 180 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide a significant portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: • our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; • we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; or • we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, from time to time, we may announce the award of certain contracts. These contracts may contain financing or other conditions and therefore may not result in revenues or profits if our customers are unable to obtain the associated financing or any other conditions associated with such projects are otherwise not met. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits, and our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments and therefore is an uncertain indicator of future operating results. A significant portion of our 18-month backlog at December 31, 2010 was composed of master service agreements and other service agreements, none of which require our customers to purchase a minimum amount of services and are cancelable on short or no advance notice. The balance of our backlog is our estimate of work to be completed on long-term installation/construction fixed price agreements. These backlog amounts are based on our estimates and therefore may not result in actual receipt of revenue in the originally anticipated period, or at all. In addition, contracts included in our backlog may not be profitable. We may experience variances in the realization of our backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, other project deferrals or delays, scope adjustments, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. If our backlog fails to materialize, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of future earnings. Our business is seasonal and is affected by adverse weather conditions and the spending patterns of our customers, exposing us to variable quarterly results. Some of our customers reduce their expenditures and work order requests towards the end of the year. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, also affect our ability to perform outdoor services in certain regions of the United States. As a result, we experience reduced revenue in the first quarter of each calendar year. Natural catastrophes such as hurricanes could also have a negative impact on the economy overall and on our ability to perform outdoor services in affected regions or utilize equipment and crews stationed in those regions, which could result in a decline in results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with our services provided under fixed price contracts, which could impair our financial performance. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from master service agreements and other service agreements that are fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services on a per unit or aggregate basis and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. In addition to master or other service agreements, we enter into contracts that require installation or construction of specified units within an infrastructure system. Under those agreements, we have also contractually agreed to a price per unit. Profitability will be reduced if the actual costs to complete each unit exceed original estimates. We are also required to immediately recognize the full amount of any expected losses on these projects if estimated costs to complete the remaining units for the projects exceed the revenue to be earned on such units. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract and higher costs of materials and labor. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those originally estimated, and as a result, certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated, or losses if actual costs for our contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. We recognize revenue for our installation/construction fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method, therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability. We recognize revenue on long-term installation/construction fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period in which such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation of actual results from estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability, which could negatively impact our liquidity. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred approximately $6.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively, of losses on percentage-of-completion contracts. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to properly manage projects, or project delays, may result in additional costs or claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Certain of our engagements involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such a project depends in large part upon our ability to manage our client relationship and the project itself and to timely deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel. Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we miscalculate the resources or time needed to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time needed to meet contractual milestones. Additionally, delays on a particular project, including permitting delays, may cause us to incur costs for standby pay, and may lead to personnel shortages on other projects scheduled to commence at a later date. In addition, some of our agreements require that we share in cost overages or pay liquidated damages if we do not meet project deadlines; therefore, any failure to properly estimate or manage cost, or delay in the completion of projects could subject us to penalties which could further adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our customers’ expectations could result in large damage claims against us, and because of the substantial cost of, and potentially long lead-time necessary to acquire certain of the materials and equipment used in our complex projects, particularly our wind farm and pipeline projects, damage claims may substantially exceed the amount we can charge for our associated services. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings, and the need for performance and surety bonds may reduce our availability under our credit facility. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. In August 2010, we increased our performance bonding capacity to accommodate growth on projects with bonding requirements. If our business continues to grow, our bonding requirements may increase. If we are not able to renew or obtain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, we may be precluded from being able to bid for certain contracts or successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds, which would reduce availability under our credit facility. Increases in our insurance premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability, liquidity and availability under our credit facility. Because of factors such as increases in claims, projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to continue to provide us with our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. An increase in premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability and liquidity as well as reduce availability under our revolving credit facility. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health claims, those policies are subject to high deductibles, and we are self-insured up to the amount of the deductible. Since most claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims. We actuarially determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, and reflect the present value of those liabilities in our balance sheet as other current and non-current liabilities. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the related liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If our insurance claims increase or if costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents Warranty claims resulting from our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We generally warrant the work we perform for a one to two-year period following substantial completion of a project, subject to further extensions of the warranty period following repairs or replacements. We have not historically accrued reserves for potential warranty claims as they have been immaterial. The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Demand for pipeline construction services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil, natural gas and other fuel prices and the cost of energy infrastructure projects. Demand for our pipeline construction services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Low prices for oil and natural gas generally depress levels of exploration, development and production activity, resulting in a corresponding decline in the demand for pipeline construction services. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: • the levels of supply and demand for oil and natural gas, especially demand for natural gas in the United States; • governmental regulations, including policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and natural gas reserves as well as environmental laws and initiatives to control global warming; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and available excess production capacity within OPEC; • oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; • the cost of producing and delivering oil and gas; and • potential acceleration of development of alternative fuels. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. Spending on exploration and production activities by large oil and gas companies has a significant impact on the activity levels of pipeline construction services. In addition, demand for pipeline construction services may be affected by the costs of energy exploration and constructing energy infrastructure projects. For example, while high oil and gas prices may increase oil and gas exploration, production and transportation activity, high demand for equipment, materials and labor required for such projects may increase the costs of such projects and dampen demand for our services. Furthermore, increased costs for raw materials such as steel and other commodities may make some projects uneconomical despite robust oil and gas prices, thus reducing demand for our pipeline construction services. A decrease in demand for our pipeline construction services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Legislative actions and incentives relating to electric power and renewable energy may fail to result in increased demand for our services. While we believe the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the “Energy Act”) will provide opportunities in the industries we serve, implementation of the Energy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Regulations implementing the components of the Energy Act that may affect demand for our services remain, in some cases, subject to review in various federal courts. In one such case, decided in February 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated FERC’s interpretation of the scope of its backstop siting authority. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the Energy Act may not result in increased spending on electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act may result in slower than anticipated growth in demand for our services. 18 Table of Contents Changes to renewable portfolio standards could, and decreased demand for renewable energy projects would, negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. A significant portion of our business is currently focused on providing construction and/or installation services to owners and operators of wind power, solar power and other renewable energy facilities. The development of wind, solar and other renewable energy facilities is highly dependent upon the federal production tax credit associated with the ARRA and the existence of renewable portfolio standards and other state incentives. Renewable portfolio standards are state specific statutory provisions requiring that electric utilities generate a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of operational/development capacity to renewable energy sources. Additionally, certified renewable energy generators earn certificates for every unit of electricity they produce and can sell these along with their electricity to supply companies. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind and renewable energy industry and a corresponding increase in demand for renewable energy infrastructure construction services. Currently, 36 states as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have adopted renewable portfolio standards or goals. Elimination of, or changes to, existing renewable portfolio standards or similar environmental policies may negatively affect demand for our services. Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless connectivity to the grid to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available. These factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated or a delay in the timing of construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which would negatively affect demand for our services. The impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 is uncertain. The recent economic downturn, coupled with a lack of available capital, resulted in a tremendous amount of uncertainty, with numerous renewable energy projects being delayed or canceled. While we believe that the ARRA, which was enacted into law in February 2009, should aid renewable energy, electrical transmission and rural broadband market opportunities, the extent to which it will result in future revenues is uncertain. We cannot predict when programs under the ARRA will be implemented, or the timing and scope of investments to be made under these programs. Investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure rural broadband facilities under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, which would negatively impact demand for our services. Additionally, the tax incentives provided by the ARRA have a finite duration. Currently, the election to claim the investment tax credit in lieu of the production tax credit is only available for qualified wind facilities placed in service from 2009 to December 31, 2012; the U.S. Treasury grant program will only be applicable to wind and solar projects placed in service in 2010 or 2011 (or after 2011 so long as construction begins in 2010 or 2011 and is completed before the termination date of the credit otherwise available for the property); and the production tax credit is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2012 and will not be available for energy generated from wind facilities placed in service after that date unless the credit program is extended or renewed. Whether the investment tax credit or U.S. Treasury grant program will be effective for wind, solar or other renewable energy projects is uncertain, as are any future efforts to extend or renew the production tax credit, the investment tax credit, and/or the U.S. Treasury grant program. Furthermore, the provisions regarding any extension or renewal may not be as favorable as those that currently exist. In addition, we cannot assure you that any extension or renewal of the production tax credit, the investment tax credit, and/or the U.S. Treasury grant program would be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. We also cannot assure you that the tax laws providing for accelerated and bonus depreciation with respect to wind or solar energy generation assets will not be modified, amended or repealed in the future. If the investment tax credit or the U.S. Treasury grant program are not effective or if the federal production tax credit is not extended or renewed, or is extended or renewed at a lower rate, the ability of our customers to obtain financing for these projects may be impaired or eliminated. In addition, changes to, or ineffectiveness of, the ARRA incentives could cause wind and solar farms to be less profitable, thereby potentially reducing demand for our wind and solar farm infrastructure construction services. Our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if demand for our services or the tax incentives were reduced. 19 Table of Contents Many of our customers are highly regulated and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact their demand for our specialty contracting services and the profitability of those services. Many of our communications customers are regulated by the FCC, and our energy customers are regulated by FERC. In addition, our utility customers are regulated by state public utility commissions. These agencies may interpret the application of their regulations in a manner that is different than the way such regulations are currently interpreted and may impose additional regulations. If existing or new regulations have an adverse affect on our customers and adversely impact the profitability of the services they provide, demand for our specialty contracting services may be reduced. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which could cause delays and result in additional costs. We perform work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain and difficult site conditions. Performing work under such conditions can result in project delays or cancellations, potentially causing us to incur additional, unanticipated costs, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In addition, some of our contracts require that we assume the risk should actual site conditions vary from those expected. Some of our projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. We may encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery delays, schedule changes, delays from customer failure to timely obtain rights-of-way, weather-related delays, delays by subcontractors in completing their portion of the project and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, but which impact our ability to complete a project within the original delivery schedule. In some cases, delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to cancel a project and/or compensate the customer for the delay. We may not be able to recover any of such costs. Any such delays or cancellations, defects or errors or other failures to meet customer expectations could result in damage claims substantially in excess of the revenue associated with a project. Delays or cancellations could also negatively impact our reputation or relationships with our customers, which could adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Some of the work we perform is in underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In such a case, we may be liable for fines and damages. We own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. Additionally, we sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our business is subject to hazards that could result in substantial liabilities and weaken our financial condition. Construction projects undertaken by us expose our employees to electrical lines, pipelines carrying potentially explosive materials, heavy equipment, mechanical failures, transportation accidents, adverse weather conditions and the risk of damage to equipment and property. These hazards can cause personal injuries and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations and large damage claims which could, in some cases, substantially exceed the amount we charge for the associated services. In addition, if serious accidents or fatalities occur, or our safety records were to deteriorate, we may be restricted from bidding on certain work and obtaining other new contracts and certain existing contracts could be terminated. Our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus. See Risk Factors - “Our failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could 20 Table of Contents reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity.” The occurrence of accidents in our business could result in significant liabilities, employee turnover, increase the costs of our projects, or harm our ability to perform under our contracts or enter into new contracts with customers, which could materially reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality. Certain of our current and historical construction operations have used hazardous materials and, to the extent that such materials are not properly stored, contained or recycled, they could become hazardous waste. Additionally, some of our contracts require that we assume the environmental risk of site conditions and require that we indemnify our customers for any damages, including environmental damages incurred in connection with our projects. We may be subject to claims under various environmental laws and regulations federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts and other damages, as well as for natural resource damages and the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at project sites, current or former properties owned or leased by us, and contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Liability may be imposed without regard to fault and may be strict, joint and several, such that we may be held responsible for more than our share of any contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share, and may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties causing the contamination. Our failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation and other state and local agencies that oversee transportation and safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various recordkeeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards and safety in excavation and demolition work may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations, and could incur penalties and fines in the future, including in extreme cases, criminal sanctions. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what are believed to be appropriate precautions, we have suffered employee injuries and fatalities in the past and may suffer additional injuries or fatalities in the future. Serious accidents of this nature may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Personal injury claims for damages, including for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate, or if we suffered substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, customers could cancel existing contracts and not award future business to us, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We have, from time to time, received notice from the U.S. Department of Transportation that our motor carrier operations will be monitored and that the failure to improve our safety performance could result in suspension or revocation of vehicle registration privileges. If we were not able to successfully resolve these issues, our ability to service our customers could be damaged, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. While only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we may expand the volume of services we provide internationally. Our international operations are presently conducted primarily in Latin America and the Caribbean, but we have performed work in Canada and various other foreign countries, and revenues derived from, or the number of countries in which we operate, could expand over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for 21 Table of Contents our services and their ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, foreign currency fluctuations, exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively affected by our foreign activities. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Our subcontractors may fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or we may be unable to maintain these relationships, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We depend on subcontractors to complete certain work on some of our projects. There is a risk that we may have disputes with subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, then our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. In addition, the absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a material decrease in profitability and liquidity. Increases in the costs of fuel could reduce our operating margins. The price of fuel needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our pricing. Accordingly, any increase in fuel costs could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity. Our profitability and liquidity could decline if certain customers reduce the amounts they pay for our services or if our customers are unable to pay for our services. In the past, we incurred significant losses after a number of customers filed for bankruptcy or experienced financial difficulties following a general economic downturn, in which certain industry factors worsened the impact of the overall economic downturn on those customers. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, total provisions for bad debts aggregated $2.9 million, $2.4 million and $3.5 million, respectively. In 2010, there was no additional provision for bad debts related to customers in bankruptcy. In 2009 and 2008, we recognized additional provisions related to customers in bankruptcy of $0.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had remaining receivables from customers undergoing bankruptcy reorganization totaling $0.9 million, of which $0.6 million is included in specific reserves for bad debts, with the remaining amounts expected to be recovered through secured and unsecured claims and enforcement of liens or bonds. 22 Table of Contents Our financial results are based, in part, upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, a number of estimates and assumptions are made by management that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is either dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available. In some cases, these estimates are particularly uncertain and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of revenue recognition, provisions for contract losses, allowances for doubtful accounts, securities available for sale, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, acquisition-related contingent consideration, other reserves and accruals, impairment of assets, income taxes, insurance reserves and litigation and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may incur goodwill impairment charges which could harm our profitability. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including anticipated future liabilities and liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of that business. As a result of acquisitions, we have $691.6 million of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to record additions to goodwill in future periods in connection with completed acquisitions, particularly as a result of future earn-out payments for acquisitions completed prior to December 15, 2008. We periodically review the carrying values of our goodwill to determine whether such carrying values exceed their fair market values. We may incur impairment charges related to goodwill in connection with any of our acquisitions in the future if the markets they serve or their businesses deteriorate. We may incur restructuring or impairment charges, which could reduce our profitability. From time to time we review our operations in an effort to improve profitability. We could incur charges in the future as a result of: • eliminating service offerings that no longer fit into our business strategy; • reducing or eliminating services or operations that do not produce adequate revenue or margin; • reducing costs of reporting units that need margin improvements; and • reviewing new business opportunities capable of utilizing our existing human and physical resources. Any charges related to restructuring or impairment would be reflected as operating expenses and could materially reduce our profitability and liquidity. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and skilled employees, we will be unable to operate efficiently, which could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our business is labor intensive, and some of our operations experience a high rate of employee turnover. In addition, given the nature of the highly specialized work we perform, many of our employees are trained in and possess specialized technical skills. At times of low unemployment rates in the areas we serve, it can be difficult for us to find qualified and affordable personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain a sufficient skilled labor force necessary to support our operating requirements and growth strategy. Our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. We may also be forced to incur significant training expenses if we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills. Additionally, our business is managed by a number of key executive and operational officers and is dependent upon retaining and recruiting qualified management. Labor shortages, increased labor or training costs, or the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents Certain of our businesses have employees who are represented by a union or are subject to collective bargaining agreements; the unionized workforce and any related obligations could adversely affect our operations. Certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and collective bargaining agreements. Although all of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future despite the terms of these agreements. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Additionally, as current agreements expire, the labor unions may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements on terms favorable to their members, or at all, or avoid strikes, lockouts or other labor actions from time to time that may affect their members. Therefore, it cannot be assured that new agreements will be reached with employee labor unions as existing contracts expire, or on terms that we find desirable. Any labor action against us relating to failure to reach an agreement with employee labor unions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations Our participation in multi-employer pension plans may subject us to liabilities that could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. Substantially all of our union and collective bargaining agreements require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. To the extent that those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,” “seriously endangered,” or “critical” status. For a plan in “critical” status, benefit reductions may apply and/or we may be required to make additional contributions if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We have been notified that certain plans to which our subsidiaries contribute are in “critical” status and require additional contributions in the form of a surcharge on future benefit contributions required for future work performed by union employees covered by these plans. The amount of additional funds we may be obligated to contribute in the future cannot be estimated. Our revolving credit facility, senior notes and senior convertible notes impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. At December 31, 2010, we had $365 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our senior notes due 2017 and our senior convertible notes due 2014. We also have a revolving credit facility with no outstanding balance at December 31, 2010 and availability was approximately $124.2 million, net of outstanding standby letters of credit aggregating $85.8 million. The terms of our indebtedness contain customary events of default and covenants that prohibit us from taking certain actions without satisfying certain financial tests or obtaining the consent of the lenders. The prohibited actions include, among other things: • buying back shares in excess of specified amounts; • making investments and acquisitions in excess of specified amounts; • incurring additional indebtedness in excess of specified amounts; • paying cash dividends; • creating certain liens against our assets; • prepaying subordinated indebtedness; • engaging in certain mergers or combinations; and • engaging in transactions that would result in a “change of control” (as defined in the credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes). Additionally, certain provisions of our convertible notes could make it more expensive for a third party to acquire us or require us to repurchase the convertible notes for cash when required by the holders, including following a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture). 24 Table of Contents Our credit facility requires us to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our credit facility, we would be required to obtain further modifications of the facility or secure another source of financing to continue to operate our business. A default could also result in the acceleration of our obligations under the credit facility, or under the indenture relating to the senior notes and the indenture relating to our convertible notes. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we need additional financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing at all or on favorable terms, which may materially decrease our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. Our inability to enforce non-competition agreements with former principals and key management of the businesses we acquire may adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally require that key management and the former principals of the businesses we acquire enter into non-competition agreements in our favor. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. Generally, state courts will examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-competition agreement; consequently, we cannot predict with certainty whether, if challenged, a court will enforce any particular non-competition agreement. If one or more former principals or members of key management of the businesses we acquire leave and the courts refuse to enforce the non-compete agreement entered into by such person or persons, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Acquisitions involve risks that could result in a reduction of our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. We have made, and in the future may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or strategic investment opportunities, or may be unable to obtain the consent of our lenders and therefore, may not be able to complete such acquisition or strategic investments. We may pay for acquisitions or strategic investments with our common stock or with convertible securities, which may dilute your investment in our common stock, or we may decide to pursue acquisitions, that investors may not agree with. In connection with most of our acquisitions, we have also agreed to substantial earn-out arrangements. To the extent we defer the payment of the purchase price for any acquisition through a cash earn-out arrangement, it will reduce our cash flows in subsequent periods. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including: • the ability to profitably manage acquired businesses or successfully integrate the acquired business’ operations and financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business; • increased indebtedness and contingent purchase price obligations associated with an acquisition; • the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions, or unforeseen internal difficulties; • the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs; • diversion of management’s attention; and • the ability to retain or hire qualified personnel required for expanded operations. In addition, acquired companies may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations. We cannot assure you that the indemnification granted to us by sellers of acquired companies will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties we assume upon consummation of an acquisition. We may learn additional information about our acquired businesses that materially adversely affect us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Borrowings or issuances of convertible securities associated with these acquisitions may also result in higher levels of indebtedness which could impact our ability to service our debt within the scheduled repayment terms. 25 Table of Contents Claims, lawsuits and proceedings could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. We are subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages, or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service agreements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide. Claimants may seek large damage awards and defending claims can involve significant costs. When appropriate, we establish reserves against these items that we believe to be adequate in light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to case developments. If our reserves are inadequate, or if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or if there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity. An adverse determination on any such claim, lawsuit or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. We have recorded unrealized losses to reduce the carrying value of certain auction rate securities we hold, and may incur additional impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities in future periods. The continuing illiquidity of the auction rate securities market may affect our ability to liquidate certain auction rate securities that we classify as securities available for sale on our balance sheet. Our securities available for sale consist of auction rate securities, which represent interests in pools of student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program and a structured finance security. The structured finance security has an attached credit default swap on corporate debt obligations with remaining terms of 6 years. The structured finance security and the credit default swap are collateralized by investment grade credit-linked notes made up of floating rate international bank notes or credit card receivable notes. We sold two of our three structured finance securities in the fourth quarter of 2010 for $7.0 million. These securities had a par value of $11.2 million and an adjusted cost basis of $6.6 million. All of our securities available for sale as of December 31, 2010, with a par value of $22.5 million and an estimated fair value and carrying amount of $19.0 million, had insufficient bidders at the scheduled rollover dates, indicating that immediate liquidity at par was unavailable. As of December 31, 2010, we had recognized cumulative credit and other losses of $6.9 million on our auction rate securities, net of realized gains, and had cumulative unrealized losses, net, of $0.8 million on the $19.8 million remaining cost basis of these auction rate securities, which are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. Our valuation is sensitive to market conditions and management’s judgment and can change significantly based on the assumptions used. Factors that may impact our valuation include changes to credit ratings of the applicable securities, and for structured finance securities, changes to the credit ratings of the underlying assets supporting the securities as well as rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral values, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. We are uncertain as to when and if liquidity associated with these investments will improve, whether we will be able to exit these investments at their respective cost bases, or whether we will incur additional temporary or other-than-temporary losses as a result of these investments. As a result of this uncertainty, our auction rate securities are classified as a long-term assets as of December 31, 2010. We have agreed to keep certain liabilities related to the state Department of Transportation related projects and assets that were sold in February 2007. Effective February 1, 2007, we sold our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets. On January 24, 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with the buyer of our state Department of Transportation projects and assets to settle previously disclosed warranty, indemnification and other claims primarily relating to work we had performed on the state Department of Transportation projects we sold. In connection with the settlement agreement, the parties also agreed to further amend and restate the Amended Asset Purchase Agreement effective as of January 24, 2008, which we refer to as the “Revised Amended Agreement.” In connection with the sale of our state Department of Transportation related projects and assets and the related settlement, we agreed to keep certain liabilities, mainly related to the cost to maintain and continue certain performance and payment bonds, certain obligations under leases between the parties and certain other litigation matters. We may also be unable to recover any losses we incur as a result of any third party claims to the extent any third parties seek payment from us directly and we are unable to recover such losses from the buyer pursuant to the indemnification obligations contained in the Revised Amended Agreement, including any losses resulting from creditor claims, in the event the buyer was financially unable to meet certain obligations. 26 Table of Contents Under the terms of the Revised Amended Agreement, the buyer is no longer required to issue a standby letter of credit in our favor to cover any remaining exposure related to our bonded obligations. Instead, pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, the buyer entered into indemnity agreements directly with certain surety bonding companies in connection with our bonded obligations. Therefore, if the buyer is unable to meet its contractual obligations, the surety bonding company can seek its remedies under the indemnity agreement. If the surety bonding company, however, pays the amounts due under the bonds, the surety bonding company will seek reimbursement of such payment from us. Accordingly, we may incur losses in the future related to these contingent liabilities if the buyer does not complete the bonded contracts and we are unable to recover such losses from the buyer pursuant to the indemnification provisions contained in the Revised Amended Agreement. The buyer of the Department of Transportation related projects and assets filed for bankruptcy protection in October 2009, which increases the likelihood that we will be required to assume certain obligations associated with these projects. At December 31, 2010, we estimated that the remaining cost to complete these state Department of Transportation projects was $0.1 million on the related $3.0 million in performance and payment bonds. Should actual costs to complete exceed estimates, we could incur future losses which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Common Stock We have a significant amount of debt. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations. We have a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $412.6 million of outstanding debt. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations; • our failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could trigger an event of default that results in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or strategic investments and other general corporate requirements, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our credit facility; • preventing us from paying dividends; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, and some of these activities may on terms that are unfavorable or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations. 27 Table of Contents There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with certain completed acquisitions and financing transactions, we have issued shares of our common stock or securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock, and in addition, we have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of cash as consideration for future earn-out obligations. We may agree to issue additional securities in connection with other future acquisition or financing transactions; which, if issued, would dilute your share ownership and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. In connection with certain completed acquisitions, we have the option to issue shares of our common stock instead of cash for certain earn-out obligations. Additionally, if we exercise our option to acquire EC Source Services LLC (“EC Source”) pursuant to the terms of the EC Source option agreement we entered into in November 2010, we will be required to deliver to the other EC Source equity holders 5,153,846 shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments. Such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders’ individual ownership percentages and could lead to volatility in our common stock price. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may issue up to a total 145,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 78,215,189 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of our $215 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes, in connection with future acquisitions or other issuances of our common stock or convertible securities, including outstanding options and warrants, or otherwise, will dilute the ownership interest of our common shareholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. A small number of our existing shareholders have the ability to influence major corporate decisions. Jorge Mas, our Chairman, Jose Mas, our Chief Executive Officer and other members of the Mas family who are employed by MasTec, beneficially owned approximately 27.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, they are in a position to influence: • the vote of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the nomination of individuals to our Board of Directors; and • a change in our control. These factors may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests or that might result in shareholders receiving a premium for their common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2010, our common stock fluctuated from a high of $15.74 per share to a low of $5.55 per share. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including: • announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of one of our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities, including any shares issued in connection with earn-out obligations for any past or future acquisition; • announcements by us or one of our competitors of new or terminated customers or new, amended or terminated contracts; • market conditions for providers of services to communications, utilities and government customers; • conversions or anticipated conversions of our senior convertible notes, or any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion; 28 Table of Contents • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and • announcements of acquisitions by us or one of our competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause shareholders to lose some or all of their investment in our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and certain provisions of Florida law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and the Florida Business Corporation Act could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control and the replacement of our incumbent directors and management, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price of our common stock. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. At any annual meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders only have the right to appoint approximately one-third of the directors on our Board of Directors. Consequently, it will take at least two annual shareholder meetings to effect a change in control of our Board of Directors, which may discourage hostile takeover bids. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also dilute the voting power of holders of our common stock, including the granting of voting control to others, which could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 