Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which address the material risks concerning our business, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K occur, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, in which case the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Some statements in this annual report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the initial section of this annual report entitled “Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Our long-term growth depends upon our ability to successfully identify and acquire desirable land parcels for residential buildout. Our future growth depends upon our ability to successfully identify and acquire attractive land parcels for development of our single-family homes at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to acquire land parcels for new single-family homes may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land parcels, the willingness of land sellers to sell land parcels at reasonable prices, competition for available land parcels, availability of financing to acquire land parcels, zoning and other market conditions. If the supply of land parcels appropriate for development of single-family homes is limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, our ability to grow could be significantly limited, and the number of homes that we build and sell could decline. Additionally, our ability to begin new projects could be impacted if we elect not to purchase land parcels under option contracts. To the extent that we are unable to purchase land parcels timely or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land parcels at reasonable prices, our home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on us. The residential homebuilding industry is cyclical and is highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions such as levels of employment, consumer confidence and income, availability of financing for acquisitions, construction and permanent mortgages, interest rate levels, inflation and demand for housing. Since early 2006, the U.S. housing market has been negatively impacted by declining consumer confidence, restrictive mortgage standards and large supplies of foreclosures, resales and new homes, among other factors. When combined with a prolonged economic downturn, high unemployment levels, increases in the rate of inflation and uncertainty in the U.S. economy, these conditions have contributed to decreased demand for housing, declining sales prices and increasing pricing pressure. In the event that these economic and business trends continue or decline further, we could experience declines in the market value of our inventory and demand for our homes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The health of the residential homebuilding industry may also be significantly affected by “shadow inventory” levels. “Shadow inventory” refers to the number of homes with a mortgage that are in some form of distress but that have not yet been listed for sale. Shadow inventory can occur when lenders put properties that have been foreclosed or forfeited to lenders on the market gradually, rather than all at once, or delay the foreclosure process. They may choose to do so because of regulations and foreclosure moratoriums, because of the additional costs and resources required to process and sell foreclosed properties, or because they want to avoid depressing housing prices further by putting many distressed properties up for sale at the same time. A significant shadow inventory in our markets could, were it to be released into our markets, adversely impact home prices and demand for our homes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. - 15 - Table of Contents In addition, an important segment of our customer base consists of first time and second time “move-up” buyers, who often purchase homes subject to contingencies related to the sale of their existing homes. The difficulties facing these buyers in selling their homes during recessionary periods may adversely affect our sales. Moreover, during such periods, we may need to reduce our sales prices and offer greater incentives to buyers to compete for sales that may result in reduced margins. Our geographic concentration could materially and adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our current markets should decline. Our business strategy is focused on the design, construction and sale of innovative single-family detached and attached homes in planned communities in major metropolitan areas in Southern and Northern California and, more recently, Colorado, as well as the eventual entry into other Southwestern markets. In Southern California, we principally operate in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, Ventura and Riverside-San Bernardino, and in Northern California, we principally operate in the counties of Santa Clara, San Mateo and Alameda. In Colorado, we anticipate that we will principally operate in the counties of Douglas, Denver, Arapahoe and Jefferson. Because our operations are concentrated in these areas, a prolonged economic downturn in one or more of these areas, particularly within California, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and a disproportionately greater impact on us than other homebuilders with more diversified operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we generated all of our revenues from our California real estate inventory. During the downturn from 2008 to 2010, land values, the demand for new homes and home prices declined substantially in California. In addition, the state of California is experiencing severe budget shortfalls and is considering raising taxes and increasing fees to offset the deficit. If these conditions in California persist or worsen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. If the current, relatively weak buyer demand for new homes in California continues or worsens, home prices could stagnate or continue to decline, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Because most of our homebuyers finance the purchase of their homes, the terms and availability of mortgage financing can affect the demand for and the ability to complete the purchase of a home, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our business depends on the ability of our homebuyers to obtain financing for the purchase of their homes. Many of our homebuyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us. Since 2009, the U.S. residential mortgage market as a whole has experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime and other loans, resulting in the declining market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to tightened credit requirements and an increase in indemnity claims for mortgages. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), Federal Housing Administration (the “FHA”) or Veterans Administration (the “VA”) standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, in turn, make it more difficult for a borrower to finance the purchase of a new home or the purchase of an existing home from a potential “move-up” buyer who wishes to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. If our potential homebuyers or the buyers of our homebuyers’ existing homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or other regulations could lower demand for our homes, which could materially and adversely affect us. Substantially all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisitions with mortgage financing. Rising interest rates, decreased availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, higher down payment - 16 - Table of Contents requirements or increased monthly mortgage costs may lead to reduced demand for our homes and mortgage loans. Increased interest rates can also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event that they cannot arrange for adequate financing. As a result, rising interest rates can decrease our home sales and mortgage originations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the FHA and the VA. The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or cessation of the federal government’s mortgage-related programs or policies. The FHA may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. Due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels, or it may revise significantly the federal government’s participation in and support of the residential mortgage market. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA- and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations, restrictions or changes in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law. This legislation provides for a number of new requirements relating to residential mortgages and mortgage lending practices, many of which are to be developed further by implementing rules. These include, among others, minimum standards for mortgages and lender practices in making mortgages, limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements, retention of credit risk and remedies for borrowers in foreclosure proceedings. The effect of such provisions on lending institutions will depend on the rules that are ultimately enacted. However, these requirements, as and when implemented, are expected to reduce the availability of loans to borrowers and/or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans. Any such reduction could result in a decline of our home sales, which could materially and adversely affect us. Any limitation on, or reduction or elimination of, tax benefits associated with owning a home would have an adverse effect upon the demand for our home products, which could be material to our business. Changes in federal income tax laws may affect demand for new homes. Current tax laws generally permit significant expenses associated with owning a home, primarily mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, to be deducted for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in many cases, state, taxable income. Various proposals have been publicly discussed to limit mortgage interest deductions and to limit the exclusion of gain from the sale of a principal residence. If such proposals were enacted without offsetting provisions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase for many of our potential customers. Enactment of any such proposal may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general, as the loss or reduction of homeowner tax deductions could decrease the demand for new homes. Difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital could result in an inability to acquire land for our developments or increased costs and delays in the completion of development projects. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land parcels and begin development. If internally generated funds are not sufficient, we may seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financings and/or securities offerings. The availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction - 17 - Table of Contents financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. The credit and capital markets have recently experienced significant volatility. If we are required to seek additional financing to fund our operations, continued volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access such financing. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures, we may be unable to acquire land for our housing developments and/or to develop the housing. Additionally, if we cannot obtain additional financing to fund the purchase of land under our option contracts or purchase contracts, we may incur contractual penalties and fees. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital for planned development expenditures could also cause project delays and any such delay could result in cost increases. Any one or more of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We face potentially substantial risk with respect to our land and lot inventory. We intend to acquire land parcels for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our current and any new markets. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land parcels increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. As a result, we may buy and develop land parcels on which homes cannot be profitably built and sold. The market value of land parcels, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. When market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, previously entered into option agreements may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreements. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes at significantly lower margins or at a loss, if we are able to sell them at all. Adverse weather and geological conditions may increase costs, cause project delays and reduce consumer demand for housing, all of which could materially and adversely affect us. As a homebuilder, we are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our management’s control, such as droughts, floods, wildfires, landslides, soil subsidence, earthquakes and other weather-related and geologic events which could damage projects, cause delays in completion of projects, or reduce consumer demand for housing, and shortages in labor or raw materials, which could delay project completion and cause increases in the prices for labor or raw materials, thereby affecting our sales and profitability. Our current markets are primarily in Southern and Northern California, areas which have historically experienced significant earthquake activity and seasonal wildfires. Areas in Colorado have also been subjected to seasonal wildfires and soil subsidence. In addition to directly damaging our projects, earthquakes, wildfires or other geologic events could damage roads and highways providing access to those projects, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market homes in those areas and possibly increasing the costs of completion. There are some risks of loss for which we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be insurable and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, may not be economically insurable. A sizeable uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities. Projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. In addition, government mandates, standards or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions - 18 - Table of Contents or projected climate change impacts could result in prohibitions or severe restrictions on land development in certain areas, increased energy, transportation and raw material costs that make building materials less available or more expensive, or cause us to incur compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or land development- or home construction-related requirements that we will be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), and reduce our homebuilding gross margins and adversely affect our consolidated financial statements, potentially to a material degree. As a result, climate change impacts, and laws and land development and home construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change impacts, could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial statements. This is a particular concern in California, which has instituted some of the most extensive and stringent environmental laws and residential building construction standards in the country. Our business and results of operations are dependent on the availability and skill of subcontractors. Substantially all of our construction work is done by third-party subcontractors with us acting as the general contractor. Accordingly, the timing and quality of our construction depend on the availability and skill of our subcontractors. While we anticipate being able to obtain sufficient materials and reliable subcontractors during times of material shortages and believe that our relationships with subcontractors are good, we do not have long-term contractual commitments with any subcontractors, and there can be no assurance that skilled subcontractors will continue to be available at reasonable rates and in the areas in which we conduct our operations. Certain of the subcontractors engaged by us are represented by labor unions or are subject to collective bargaining arrangements. A strike or other work stoppage involving any of our subcontractors could also make it difficult for us to retain subcontractors for our construction work. In addition, union activity could result in higher costs to retain our subcontractors. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite our quality control efforts, we may discover that our subcontractors were engaging in improper construction practices or installing defective materials in our homes. When we discover these issues, we, generally through our subcontractors, repair the homes in accordance with our new home warranty and as required by law. We reserve up to 1.0% of the sales price of each home we sell to provide the customer service to our homebuyers. These reserves are established based on market practices, our historical experiences, and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. However, the cost of satisfying our warranty and other legal obligations in these instances may be significantly higher than our warranty reserves, and we may be unable to recover the cost of repair from such subcontractors. Regardless of the steps we take, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other penalties, and our reputation may be injured. Labor and raw material shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction, which could materially and adversely affect us. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and raw material shortages from time to time, including shortages in qualified tradespeople, and supplies of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and raw material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. The cost of labor and raw materials may also be adversely affected during periods of shortage or high inflation. During the recent economic downturn, a large number of qualified tradespeople went out of business or otherwise exited the market. A reduction in available tradespeople will likely exacerbate labor shortages when demand for new housing increases. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. - 19 - Table of Contents Utility shortages or price increases could have an adverse impact on operations. Certain of the areas in which we operate, particularly in Southern and Northern California, have experienced power shortages, including mandatory periods without electrical power, as well as significant increases in utility costs. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages and utility rate increases continue. In addition, power shortages and rate increases may adversely affect the local economies in which we operate, which may reduce demand for housing in our markets. Our operations may be adversely impacted if further rate increases and/or power shortages occur. New and existing laws and regulations or other governmental actions may increase our expenses, limit the number of homes that we can build or delay completion of our projects. We are subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements, the result of which is to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. We may also be subject to periodic delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives that could be implemented in the future. Local governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees and exactions for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which we have received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, home sales could decline and costs increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our housing projects. We are often required to provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. As a result of market conditions, surety providers have been reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers are requesting credit enhancements (such as cash deposits or letters of credit) in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. If we are unable to obtain required bonds in the future for our projects, or if we are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may increase our costs, limit the areas in which we can build homes and delay completion of our projects. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to multiple factors, including the site’s location, its environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, in those cases where an endangered or threatened species is involved, environmental rules and regulations can result in the restriction or elimination of development in identified environmentally sensitive areas. From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and similar federal or state agencies review homebuilders’ compliance with environmental laws and may levy fines and penalties for failure to strictly comply with applicable environmental laws or impose additional requirements for future compliance as a result of past failures. Any such actions taken with respect to us may increase our costs. Further, we expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on homebuilders in the future. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials such as lumber. California is especially susceptible to restrictive government regulations and environmental laws. - 20 - Table of Contents Under various environmental laws, current or former owners of real estate, as well as certain other categories of parties, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for related damages, including for bodily injury, and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. A mitigation system may be installed during the construction of a home if a cleanup does not remove all contaminants of concern or to address a naturally occurring condition such as methane. Some buyers may not want to purchase a home with a mitigation system. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in the homebuilding industry. Competition in the homebuilding industry is intense, and there are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, home buying customers, desirable land parcels, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. Increased competition could hurt our business, as it could prevent us from acquiring attractive land parcels on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder our market share expansion, and lead to pricing pressures on our homes that may adversely impact our margins and revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are superior or substantially similar to our products. Furthermore, a number of our primary competitors are significantly larger, have a longer operating history and may have greater resources or lower cost of capital than ours; accordingly, they may be able to compete more effectively in one or more of the markets in which we operate. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We also compete for sales with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing. Increases in our cancellation rate could have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and homebuilding margins. The cancellation rate of buyers for our owned projects who contracted to buy a home but did not close escrow (as a percentage of overall orders) was approximately 16% and 13% during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Home order cancellations negatively impact the number of closed homes, net new home orders, home sales revenue and results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Upon a home order cancellation, the homebuyer’s escrow deposit is returned to the homebuyer (other than with respect to certain design-related deposits, which we retain). An increase in the level of our home order cancellations could have a negative impact on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. While we maintain general liability insurance and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for some portion of the liabilities arising from their work, there can be no assurance that these insurance rights and indemnities will be collectable or adequate to cover any or all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be liable. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we are often responsible for applicable self-insured retentions (particularly in markets where we include our subcontractors on our general liability insurance and our ability to seek indemnity for insured claims is significantly limited), certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits, and one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent. Additionally, in the event we determine to obtain product liability - 21 - Table of Contents insurance, the coverage offered by and availability of such insurance for construction defects is limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted, become more costly or even be available. Furthermore, any product liability or warranty claims made against us, whether or not they are viable, may lead to negative publicity, which could impact our reputation and our home sales. In addition, we conduct the substantial portion of our business in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious jurisdictions in the United States, which imposes a ten year, strict liability tail on many construction liability claims. As a result, our potential losses and expenses due to litigation, new laws and regulations may be greater than those of our competitors who have smaller California operations. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for operations, as well as the value of our real estate assets. These events include, but are not limited to: • adverse changes in international, national or local economic and demographic conditions; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers and sellers of properties, particularly residential homes and land suitable for development of residential homes; • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies and developers and institutional investment funds; • reductions in the level of demand for and increases in the supply of land suitable for development; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of homebuyers, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • unanticipated increases in expenses, including, without limitation, insurance costs, development costs, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies; and • changes in enforcement of laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in the purchase of homes or an increased incidence of home order cancellations. If we cannot successfully implement our business strategy, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties for reasonable prices in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited and we may be forced to hold non-income producing properties for extended periods of time. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly. As a result, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited and we may be forced to hold non-income producing assets for an extended period of time. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms that we set or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Fluctuations in real estate values may require us to write-down the book value of our real estate assets. The homebuilding industry is subject to significant variability and fluctuations in real estate values. As a result, we may be required to write-down the book value of our real estate assets in accordance with U.S. - 22 - Table of Contents generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and some of those write-downs could be material. Any material write-downs of assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Inflation could adversely affect our business and financial results. Inflation could adversely affect us by increasing the costs of land, raw materials and labor needed to operate our business. If the market continues to have an oversupply of homes relative to demand, we may be unable to offset any such increases in costs with corresponding higher sales prices for our homes. Inflation may also accompany higher interests rates, which could adversely impact potential customers’ ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, thereby further decreasing demand. If we are unable to raise the prices of our homes to offset the increasing costs of our operations, our margins could decrease. Furthermore, if we need to lower the price of our homes to meet demand, the value of our land inventory may decrease. Inflation may also raise our costs of capital and decrease our purchasing power, making it more difficult to maintain sufficient funds to operate our business. Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business. Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power or acts of terrorism may cause disruption to the U.S. economy, or the local economies of the markets in which we operate, cause shortages of building materials, increase costs associated with obtaining building materials, result in building code changes that could increase costs of construction, affect job growth and consumer confidence, or cause economic changes that we cannot anticipate, all of which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely impact our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest The Starwood Fund holds a significant equity interest in our company and its interests may not be aligned with yours. The Starwood Fund beneficially owns 11,985,905 shares of our common stock, which represents 37.9% of our common stock as of March 7, 2013. The Starwood Fund is managed by an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group. For so long as the Starwood Fund continues to beneficially own a controlling stake in us, the Starwood Fund will have the power to elect and remove all of our directors and to approve any action requiring the majority approval of our stockholders. In addition, the Starwood Fund has the right to designate two members of our board for as long as the Starwood Fund owns 25% or more of our outstanding common stock (excluding shares of common stock that are subject to issuance upon the exercise or exchange of rights of conversion or any options, warrants or other rights to acquire shares) and one member for as long as it owns at least 10%. Messrs. Bauer, Mitchell and Grubbs have agreed to vote all shares of our common stock that they own in favor of the Starwood Fund nominees in any election of directors for as long as the Starwood Fund owns at least 10%. The Starwood Fund’s interests may not be fully aligned with yours and this could lead to a strategy that is not in your best interests. In addition, the Starwood Fund’s significant ownership in us and resulting ability to effectively control us may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, or could discourage transactions involving a change in control, including transactions in which you as a holder of shares of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for your shares over the then-current market price. Moreover, if the Starwood Fund’s beneficial ownership of our common stock were to exceed 50%, we may elect to be treated as a “controlled company” for purposes of the New York Stock Exchange, which would allow us to opt out of certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and that the compensation committee and nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors. We do not currently qualify to rely on the controlled company exemptions; however, to the extent we may qualify in the future, we may choose to take advantage of these exemptions. - 23 - Table of Contents As a result of Starwood Capital Group’s relationship with our company, conflicts of interest may arise with respect to any transactions involving or with Starwood Capital Group or its affiliates. Barry Sternlicht, the chairman of our board, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and J. Marc Perrin, a member of our board, is a Managing Director, of Starwood Capital Group. As a result of our relationship with Starwood Capital Group, there may be transactions between us and Starwood Capital Group that could present an actual or perceived conflict of interest. These conflicts of interest may lead Mr. Sternlicht and Mr. Perrin to recuse themselves from actions of our board of directors with respect to any transactions involving or with Starwood Capital Group or its affiliates, or with Starwood Property Trust, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange-listed public mortgage REIT managed by an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group. In addition, Mr. Sternlicht and Mr. Perrin will devote only a portion of their business time to their duties with our board of directors, and they will devote the majority of their time to their duties with Starwood Capital Group and other commitments. In addition to the acquisition of lots in Azusa, California and Castle Rock, Colorado from an entity managed by or partially owned by an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group referred to under “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions”, we may in the future acquire additional land from affiliates of Starwood Capital Group. Any such acquisitions will be separately considered for approval by our independent directors. We have no contractual right to access the personnel, relationships or the investing and operational expertise of Starwood Capital Group, which may be withheld from us at any time, and we are likely to lose such access if and when the Starwood Fund ceases to hold a material investment in our company. Starwood Capital Group may pursue competing transactions. We believe that our relationship with Starwood Capital Group provides us with a competitive advantage by providing us with access to the personnel, relationships and the investing and operational expertise of Starwood Capital Group. However, we have not entered into, nor do we anticipate entering into, any exclusivity agreements with Starwood Capital Group, and we have no contractual right to access Starwood Capital Group’s personnel, relationships or expertise. Starwood Capital Group may cease to provide us with access to its personnel, relationships and expertise at any time, or from time to time, and we are likely to lose such access if and when the Starwood Fund ceases to hold a material investment in our company. Our inability to access Starwood Capital Group’s personnel, relationships or expertise as we currently expect, or the loss of such access in the future, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we believe that our relationship with Starwood Capital Group provides us with access to a greater number of acquisition opportunities than our competitors, and if we do not have access to those opportunities as we currently expect, our ability to grow could be significantly limited, and the number of homes that we build and sell could be materially lower than what we currently anticipate. In addition, Starwood Capital Group is under no obligation to engage in any transactions with us, to present any acquisition opportunities to us or to assist us in any way in acquiring land parcels. As a result, Starwood Capital Group may pursue transactions that are competitive with our business, including engaging in acquisitions and/or sales of land and other residential properties for its own benefit, or for the benefit of entities that its affiliates manage, with third parties. In addition, Starwood Capital Group may sell land suitable for residential buildout in our current or target markets to our competitors. Any of the foregoing activities by Starwood Capital Group could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not pay any fees to Starwood Capital Group or its affiliates, we have reimbursed Starwood Capital Group for certain due diligence expenses, and for the out-of-pocket travel and lodging expenses of representatives of the Starwood Fund for their attendance at board and other meetings and in connection with site visits or other business of our company. We reimbursed Starwood Capital Group $4,166, $79,464 and $0 during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. - 24 - Table of Contents The employment agreements of our executive officers were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with them. We have entered into amended and restated employment agreements with Douglas Bauer, our Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Mitchell, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Michael Grubbs, our Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to which they will devote their full business time and attention to our affairs. See “Item 11, Executive Compensation.” These employment agreements were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individuals party to these agreements. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We expect to use leverage in executing our business strategy, which may adversely affect the return on our assets. We expect to employ prudent levels of leverage to finance the acquisition and development of our lots and construction of our homes. Our existing indebtedness is recourse to us and we anticipate that future indebtedness will likewise be recourse. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $123.5 million of aggregate loan commitments, of which $57.4 million was outstanding. Our board of directors will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of new indebtedness, including the purchase price of assets to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our assets and the ability of particular assets, and our company as a whole, to generate cash flow to cover the expected debt service. As a means of sustaining our long-term financial health and limiting our exposure to unforeseen dislocations in the debt and financing markets, we currently expect to remain conservatively capitalized. However, our charter does not contain a limitation on the amount of debt we may incur and our board of directors may change our target debt levels at any time without the approval of our stockholders. Incurring substantial debt could subject us to many risks that, if realized, would adversely affect us, including the risk that: • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on the debt which is likely to result in acceleration of such debt; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase with higher financing cost; • we may be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future investment opportunities or other purposes; and • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance the debt through additional debt or additional equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of our assets on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. To the extent we cannot meet any future debt service obligations, we will risk losing some or all of our assets that may be pledged to secure our obligations to foreclosure. Unsecured debt agreements may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the unsecured lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Defaults under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. - 25 - Table of Contents Access to financing sources may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, especially in light of current market conditions, which could adversely affect our ability to maximize our returns. We expect to employ prudent levels of leverage to finance the acquisition and development of our lots and construction of our homes. Our existing indebtedness is recourse to us and we anticipate that future indebtedness will likewise be recourse. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $123.5 million of aggregate loan commitments, of which $57.4 million was outstanding. Our access to additional third-party sources of financing will depend, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • with respect to acquisition and/or development financing, the market’s perception of the value of the land parcels to be acquired and/or developed; • our current debt levels; • our current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow; and • the market price per share of our common stock. Recently, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility, uncertainty and a tightening of liquidity in both the investment grade debt and equity capital markets. Credit spreads for major sources of capital widened significantly during the U.S. credit crisis as investors demanded a higher risk premium. Given the current volatility and weakness in the capital and credit markets, potential lenders may be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing that is attractive to us or may charge us prohibitively high fees in order to obtain financing. Consequently, there is greater uncertainty regarding our ability to access the credit market in order to attract financing on reasonable terms. Investment returns on our assets and our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected by our inability to secure additional financing on reasonable terms, if at all. Depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity financings or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities and other purposes. We may not have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all. Our current financing arrangements contain, and our future financing arrangements likely will contain, restrictive covenants relating to our operations. Our current financing arrangements contain, and the financing arrangements we enter into in the future likely will contain, covenants (financial and otherwise) affecting our ability to incur additional debt, make certain investments, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our stockholders and otherwise affect our operating policies. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants in our debt agreements, we would be in default under these agreements, which could result in a cross-default under other debt agreements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their respective interests against existing collateral. A default also could limit significantly our financing alternatives, which could cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets when we otherwise would not choose to do so. If we default on several of our debt agreements or any single significant debt agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Secured indebtedness exposes us to the possibility of foreclosure on our ownership interests in our land parcels. Incurring mortgage and other secured indebtedness increases our risk of loss of our ownership interests in our land parcels or other assets because defaults thereunder, and the inability to refinance such indebtedness, may result in foreclosure action initiated by lenders. - 26 - Table of Contents Interest expense on debt we incur may limit our cash available to fund our growth strategies. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $123.5 million of aggregate loan commitments, of which $57.4 million was outstanding. As part of our financing strategy, we may incur a significant amount of additional debt. Our current debt has, and any additional debt we subsequently incur may have, a floating rate of interest. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on our current floating rate debt and on any floating rate debt we subsequently incur, and could reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. If we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to refinance our then-existing debt on unfavorable terms or liquidate one or more of our assets to repay such debt at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such assets and could result in a loss. The occurrence of either such event or both could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect us. We may obtain in the future one or more forms of interest rate protection—in the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements—to hedge against the possible negative effects of interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately relieve the adverse effects of interest rate increases or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations thereunder. In addition, we may be subject to risks of default by hedging counterparties. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our assets at times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our assets in order to meet our debt service obligations. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure We have a limited operating history and we may not be able to successfully operate our business. Our predecessor was formed in April 2009 and TPH LLC was formed in September 2010. On January 30, 2013, TRI Pointe Homes, LLC was converted from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation and renamed TRI Pointe Homes, Inc. Given our limited operating history, you will have little historical information upon which to evaluate our prospects, including our ability to acquire desirable land parcels, develop such land and market our homes. In addition, we cannot assure you that our past experience will be sufficient to enable us to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and business strategies as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flows to pay our operating expenses or service our indebtedness. You should not rely upon the past performance of our management team, as past performance may not be indicative of our future results. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, Douglas Bauer, our Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Mitchell, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Michael Grubbs, our Chief Financial Officer, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into amended and restated employment agreements with Messrs. Bauer, Mitchell and Grubbs, there is no guarantee that these executives will remain employed with us. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Our ability to retain our key personnel or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key personnel or a limitation in their availability could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Although we are currently considering our coverages, we have not obtained key man life insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of death or disability of any of our key personnel. - 27 - Table of Contents Termination of the employment agreements with the members of our management team could be costly and prevent a change in control of our company. Our amended and restated employment agreements with Douglas Bauer, our Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Mitchell, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Michael Grubbs, our Chief Financial Officer, each provide that if their employment with us terminates under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay them significant amounts of severance compensation, thereby making it costly to terminate their employment. Furthermore, these provisions could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium paid for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us. Our charter and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium paid for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain of these provisions are described below. Selected provisions of our charter and bylaws. Our charter and/or bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that: • authorize our board of directors, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting that series and establish the rights and other terms of that series; • require that actions to be taken by our stockholders may be taken only at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our chief executive officer; • establish advance notice procedures for stockholders to submit nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors and other proposals to be brought before a stockholders meeting; • provide that our bylaws may be amended by our board of directors without stockholder approval; • allow our directors to establish the size of our board of directors by action of our board, subject to a minimum of three members; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors or newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of our directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • do not give the holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors; and • prohibit us from engaging in certain business combinations with any “interested stockholder” unless specified conditions are satisfied as described below under “—Selected provisions of Delaware law.” Selected provisions of Delaware law. We have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), which regulates corporate takeovers. However, our charter contains provisions that are similar to Section 203 of the DGCL. Specifically, our charter provides that we may not engage in certain “business combinations” with any “interested stockholder” for a three-year period following the time that the person became an interested stockholder, unless: • prior to the time that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder; - 28 - Table of Contents • upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding certain shares; or • at or subsequent to the time the person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by the interested stockholder. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, consolidation, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with that person’s affiliates and associates, owns, or within the previous three years owned, 15% or more of our voting stock. However, in the case of our company, the Starwood Fund and any of its affiliates and subsidiaries and any of their permitted transferees receiving 15% or more of our voting stock will not be deemed to be interested stockholders regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them. This provision could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. We may change our operational policies, investment guidelines and our business and growth strategies without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future. Our board of directors will determine our operational policies, investment guidelines and our business and growth strategies. Our board of directors may make changes to, or approve transactions that deviate from, those policies, guidelines and strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different business or growth strategies than those contemplated in this annual report on Form 10-K. Under any of these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The obligations associated with being a public company will require significant resources and management attention. As a public company with listed equity securities, we will need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, including the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), related regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our management and independent auditors to report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, we are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JumpStart Our Business Startups (“JOBS”) Act, and, so for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. Once we are no longer an emerging growth company or, if prior to such date, we opt to no longer take advantage of the applicable exemption, we will be required to include an opinion from our independent auditors on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational and accounting resources and will cause us to incur significant expenses. We may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems - 29 - Table of Contents and procedures, create or outsource an internal audit function, and hire additional accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could materially and adversely affect us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect us. We are an “emerging growth company” and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of this offering, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have determined to opt out of such extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards is irrevocable. Changes in accounting rules, assumptions and/or judgments could materially and adversely affect us. Accounting rules and interpretations for certain aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant assumptions and judgment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation and - 30 - Table of Contents dissemination of our financial statements. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules and interpretations or in our accounting assumptions and/or judgments, such as asset impairments, could significantly impact our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Any joint venture investments that we make could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a land acquisition and/or a development. In this event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the acquisition and/or development, and our investment may be illiquid due to our lack of control. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third-party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, make poor business decisions or block or delay necessary decisions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. We may become subject to litigation, which could materially and adversely affect us. In the future we may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, security offerings and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We generally intend to vigorously defend ourselves. However, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby materially and adversely affecting us. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could materially and adversely impact us, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and materially and adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers. An information systems interruption or breach in security could adversely affect us. We rely on fully integrated accounting, financial and operational management information systems to conduct our operations. Any disruption in these systems could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, any security breach of information systems or data could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Failure by our directors, executives or employees to comply with applicable codes of conduct could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our stock. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and a Code of Ethics for senior executives and financial officers. Our adoption of these codes and other standards of conduct is not a representation or warranty that all persons subject to those codes or standards are or will be in complete compliance. The failure of a director, executive or employee to comply with applicable codes or standards of conduct may result in termination of the relationship and/or adverse publicity, either of which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our stock. - 31 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock A trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and our common stock prices may be volatile and could decline substantially following this offering. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no market for shares of our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TPH,” an active trading market for the shares of our common stock may not be sustained. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to the following: • the likelihood that an active trading market for shares of our common stock will be sustained; • the liquidity of any such market; • the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock; or • the price that our stockholders may obtain for their common stock. If an active market is not maintained, the market price of our common stock may decline and you may sell. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, government regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect or result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to the level of our indebtedness; • additions or departures of key personnel; • actions by stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in accounting principles; and • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or the homebuilding industry. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in any financing instruments and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, you may need to sell your shares of our common stock to realize a return on your investment, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. - 32 - Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock or other securities convertible into our common stock could cause the market value of our common stock to decline and could result in dilution of your shares. Our board of directors is authorized, without your approval, to cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or to raise capital through the issuance of preferred stock (including equity or debt securities convertible into common stock), options, warrants and other rights, on terms and for consideration as our board of directors in its sole discretion may determine. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for future sales, on the value of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by the Starwood Fund or another large stockholder or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 7, 2013, the members of our management team collectively beneficially owned 1,850,340 shares of our common stock (excluding grants of restricted stock units and options to purchase shares of our common stock), which represents 5.9% of our common stock outstanding. See Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” In addition, the members of our management team and other officers and employees have been granted an aggregate of 150,000 restricted stock units and the members of our management team have been granted options to purchase an aggregate of 282,201 shares of our common stock (with a strike price equal to $17.00 per share), in each case pursuant to our 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan and our director nominees have been granted an aggregate of 9,412 restricted stock units pursuant to our 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Further, as of March 7, 2013, the Starwood Fund beneficially owns 11,985,905 shares of our common stock, which represents 37.9% of our common stock outstanding. In connection with our initial public offering, we, our officers and directors, the Starwood Fund and the third-party investor in TPH LLC have agreed that, and purchasers of our shares through the directed share program will agree that, for a period of 180 days from January 30, 2013, we and they will not, without the prior written consent of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representative of the several underwriters of our initial public offering dispose of or hedge any shares or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, subject to certain exceptions. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in its sole discretion may release any of the securities subject to these lock-up agreements at any time, which, in the case of officers and directors, shall be with notice. If the restrictions under the lock-up agreements are waived, shares of our common stock may become available for resale into the market, subject to applicable law, which could reduce the market price for our common stock. Pursuant to his employment agreement, each member of our management team has agreed that, for a period of 36 months following the completion of our initial public offering, during any calendar quarter, he will not sell shares of our common stock in an amount exceeding the greater of (1) 10% of the shares of our common stock owned by him on the date of the completion of this offering and (2) the percentage of shares of our common stock that has been sold or otherwise disposed of by the Starwood Fund during such calendar quarter. Any sales of shares of our common stock made pursuant to the foregoing will be subject to the restrictions imposed by the lock-up agreements referenced above and by applicable law. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with the members of TPH LLC, including the Starwood Fund, the members of our management team and a third-party investor, with respect to the shares of our common stock that they received as part of our formation transactions. We refer to these shares collectively as the “registrable shares.” Pursuant to the registration rights agreement, we have granted the members of TPH LLC and their direct and indirect transferees shelf registration rights requiring us to file a shelf registration statement and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement so as to allow sales thereunder from time to time, demand registration rights to have the registrable shares registered for resale, and, in certain circumstances, the right to “piggy-back” the registrable shares in registration statements we might file in connection with any future public offering. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register the total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued under our 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan, including the restricted stock units to be - 33 - Table of Contents granted to the members of our management team, other officers and employees and our director nominees, as well as the options to purchase shares of our common stock to be granted to the members of our management team, in each case upon the completion of this offering pursuant to our 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt securities or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings, and purchasers of our common stock in this offering bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their ownership interest in our company. Non-U.S. holders may be subject to United States federal income tax on gain realized on the sale or disposition of shares of our common stock. We believe we are and will remain a “United States real property holding corporation” for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a non-U.S. holder generally will be subject to United States federal income tax on any gain realized on a sale or disposition of shares of our common stock, and a purchaser of the stock generally will be required to withhold and remit to the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) 10% of the purchase price, unless our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the New York Stock Exchange) and such non-U.S. holder did not actually or constructively hold more than 5% of our common stock at any time during the shorter of (a) the five-year period preceding the date of the sale or disposition and (b) the non-U.S. holder’s holding period in such stock. A non-U.S. holder also will be required to file a United States federal income tax return for any taxable year in which it realizes a gain from the disposition of our common stock that is subject to United States federal income tax. No assurance can be given that our common stock will remain regularly traded in the future. Non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors concerning the consequences of disposing of shares of our common stock. - 34 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 