Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results, growth prospects and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common shares. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are an early stage company with no approved products and no revenue from commercialization of our product. We are at an early stage of development of our product candidate, PRX302, for the treatment of the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH. We have not completed the development of any product candidates and, accordingly, have not begun to commercialize, or any product candidate or generate any product revenues from any product candidate. PRX302 requires significant additional clinical testing and investment prior to seeking marketing approval. A commitment of substantial resources by ourselves and potential partners to conduct time-consuming Phase 3 clinical trials for PRX302 will be required to meet applicable regulatory standards, obtain required regulatory approvals, and to successfully commercialize this product candidate. PRX302 is not expected to be commercially available for several years, if at all. We are highly dependent on the success of PRX302 and we may not be able to successfully obtain regulatory or marketing approval for, or successfully commercialize, this product candidate. To date, we have expended significant time, resources and effort on the development of PRX302, including conducting preclinical and clinical trials, for the treatment of the symptoms of BPH. We have no product candidates in our clinical development pipeline other than PRX302. Our ability to generate product revenues and to achieve commercial success in the near term will initially depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and then successfully commercialize PRX302 in the United States and the European Economic Area, or EEA. Before we can market and sell PRX302 in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, we will need to commence and complete additional clinical trials, manage clinical, preclinical, and manufacturing activities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the United States and from similar foreign regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, obtain manufacturing supply, build a commercial organization or enter into a marketing collaboration with a third party, and in some jurisdictions, obtain reimbursement authorization, among other things. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approvals and sufficient commercial manufacturing supply for PRX302. If we do not receive regulatory approvals, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, we may never generate significant revenues from any commercial sales of PRX302. If we fail to successfully commercialize PRX302, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. PRX302 is subject to extensive regulation, and we may not obtain regulatory approvals for PRX302. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, tracking, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, export, import, marketing and distribution and other possible activities relating to our product candidate are, and for any other biologic or drug candidate that we may develop will be, subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and other regulatory agencies in foreign jurisdictions. PRX302, our only product candidate, is subject to regulation in the United States as a biologic. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and we are not permitted to market PRX302 in the United States until we obtain approval from the FDA of a BLA. To market PRX302 in the EEA, which includes the 27 member states of the European Union plus Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland, we must submit a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for approval under the EMA’s centralized procedure, which if the marketing authorization is granted, will enable us to market the product throughout the entire territory of the EEA. A BLA or MAA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, sufficient to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable product candidate to the satisfaction of FDA and EMA, respectively. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of a BLA or an MAA is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and will take several years. The FDA and foreign regulatory entities also have substantial discretion in the approval process. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for BLA or MAA approval varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or the condition that the product candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Despite the time and expense associated with preclinical studies and clinical trials, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or generate additional CMC data. The FDA, EMA and similar foreign authorities could delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including because they: • may not deem our product candidate to be adequately safe and effective; • may not find the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials or CMC data to be sufficient to support a claim of safety and efficacy; • may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities associated with our product candidate; • may conclude that we have not sufficiently demonstrated long-term stability of the formulation of the drug product for which we are seeking marketing approval; • may change approval policies (including with respect to our product candidate’s class of biologics) or adopt new regulations; or • may not accept a submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission. Obtaining approval of a BLA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. As part of the U.S. Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has a goal to review and act on a percentage of all submissions in a given time frame. The general review goal for a BLA is 12 months from the filing date for a standard application and eight months from the filing date for a priority review application. The filing date is typically 60 days after submission of a BLA to the FDA. The FDA’s review goals are subject to change, and it is unknown whether the review of a BLA for PRX302 will be completed within the FDA’s target timelines or will be delayed. Moreover, the duration of the FDA’s review may depend on the number and types of other BLAs that are submitted to the FDA around the same time period or are pending. Generally, public concern regarding the safety of drug products could delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval, result in the inclusion of unfavorable information in our labeling, or require us to undertake other activities that may entail additional costs. We submitted an investigational new drug application for PRX302 in April 2011. We have not submitted an application for approval or obtained FDA approval for any product. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for PRX302. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements, either before or after product approval, may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • warning letters; • civil and criminal penalties; • injunctions; • withdrawal of approved products; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending BLAs or supplements to approved BLAs. Even if we believe that data collected from our preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidate are promising, our data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. In addition, the FDA’s regulatory review of BLAs for product candidates intended for widespread use by a large proportion of the general population is becoming increasingly focused on safety, which may lead to increased scrutiny of the safety data we submit in our BLA for PRX302. Even if approved, a product candidate may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the biologic may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations. Our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidate. We cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop. 23 Table of Contents To market any biologics outside of the United States, we and current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory and compliance related requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods, including obtaining reimbursement and pricing approval in select markets. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as additional, presently unanticipated, risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others, including the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. The clinical trial protocol and design for our one ongoing and additional planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 may not be sufficient to allow us to submit a BLA to the FDA or demonstrate safety or efficacy at the level required by the FDA for product approval. Based on the results from our Phase 2 clinical trials, we are currently conducting a Phase 3 clinical trial of PRX302 and expect to conduct one additional Phase 3 clinical trial for PRX302 to examine whether PRX302 will effectively relieve BPH symptoms as measured at three months and 12 months following treatment. The first of our two planned Phase 3 clinical trials, which we initiated in October 2013, will use the International Prostate Symptom Score, or IPSS, outcome measure evaluated at 12 months as the primary endpoint, which is consistent with clinical trials of another injectable currently under development by a third party for the treatment of the symptoms of BPH. We have not submitted a special protocol assessment, or SPA, which drug development companies sometimes use to obtain an agreement with the FDA concerning the design and size of a clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. Without the concurrence of the FDA on an SPA or otherwise, we cannot be certain that the design, conduct and data analysis approach for our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials will generate data sufficient to establish the effectiveness of PRX302 for treatment of BPH symptoms to the FDA’s satisfaction, and therefore allow us to submit or receive approval of a BLA for PRX302. If the FDA requires us, or we otherwise determine, to amend our protocols, change our clinical trial designs, increase enrollment targets or conduct additional clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval on the timeline we have projected would be jeopardized and we could be required to make significant additional expenditures related to clinical development. Further, even if we achieve positive results on the endpoints for a clinical trial, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data and deem the results insufficient to demonstrate efficacy at the level required by the FDA for product approval. It is possible that we may make modifications to the clinical trial protocols or designs of our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials that delay enrollment or completion of such clinical trials and could delay regulatory approval of PRX302. Any failure to obtain approval for PRX302 on the timeline that we currently anticipate, or at all, would have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be jeopardized. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of the relationships violate federal or state fraud and abuse laws or healthcare privacy and security laws. Clinical development is a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. Because the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, PRX302 may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Clinical development is expensive, takes many years to complete and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process and PRX302 is subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing, even at statistically significant levels. We will be required to demonstrate through well-controlled clinical trials of PRX302 that our product candidate is safe and effective for use in its target indication before we can obtain regulatory approvals for its commercial sale. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. Either or both of our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 may not be successful for a variety of reasons, including faults in the clinical trial designs, the failure to enroll a sufficient number of patients, undesirable side effects and other safety concerns and the inability to demonstrate sufficient efficacy. 24 Table of Contents Further, the data collected from clinical trials with large patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of PRX302. Our one ongoing and additional planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 will enroll significantly more patients than we have enrolled in clinical trials of PRX302 to date. We are currently enrolling and expect to enroll approximately 440 patients in our first Phase 3 clinical trial. If PRX302 fails to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon our development of, PRX302, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. PRX302 may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that may delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization or limit its commercial potential. Undesirable side effects caused by PRX302 could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of marketing approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. This, in turn, could limit or prevent us from commercializing PRX302 and generating revenues from its sale. To date, the most common adverse events observed in patients who received PRX302 in our Phase 2 clinical trials that were potentially attributable to PRX302 included the presence of red blood cells in urine, painful urination, frequent urination and urinary urgency, perineal pain and discomfort (observed in patients who received both drug and placebo, which is otherwise referred to as the vehicle), vertigo and malaise that could be attributable to PRX302 induced inflammation. Each of the foregoing adverse events occurred in greater than 5% of the PRX302 population. Although none of the patients in our Phase 1/2 clinical trial using the transrectal route of administration experienced sepsis, our change to this route of administration is expected to increase the risk of sepsis. Results from our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of these or other side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of PRX302 for its targeted indication. Further, such side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if PRX302 receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by PRX302, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of PRX302; • regulatory authorities may require that we demonstrate a larger clinical benefit by conducting additional clinical trials for approval to offset the risk; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements or warnings that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of PRX302; • we may be required to change the way PRX302 is administered; • we may choose to recall, withdraw or discontinue sale of PRX302; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; • we may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on our business model; and • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing PRX302, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating any revenues from the sale of the product, which could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We may experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, which could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval and generate product revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs and could result in the need for additional financing. Although we initiated the first of our two planned Phase 3 clinical trials in October 2013, we do not know when or whether our second planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 will begin, or if either trial will be completed on time, or at all. The commencement or completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in or related to: • raising sufficient capital to fund our second planned Phase 3 clinical trial; • obtaining regulatory approval, or feedback on trial design necessary, to commence a clinical trial; • identifying, recruiting and training suitable clinical investigators; • identifying, recruiting and enrolling suitable patients to participate in a clinical trial; • catastrophic loss of drug product due to shipping delays or delays in customs in connection with delivery of drug product to foreign countries for use in clinical trials; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites; • obtaining sufficient quantities of PRX302 and the diluent used with PRX302 for use in clinical trials; • having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; • adding new clinical trial sites; • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw due to adverse side effects from the therapy, insufficient efficacy, fatigue with the clinical trial process or personal issues. Any delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials will delay our timeline to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidate. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. Our one ongoing and additional planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 for the treatment of the symptoms of BPH will seek to enroll significantly more patients than we have enrolled in clinical trials of PRX302 to date. We are currently enrolling and expect to enroll approximately 440 patients in our first Phase 3 clinical trial both in and outside of the United States. We do not expect to commence enrollment of our second Phase 3 clinical trial until completion of an administrative analysis by an independent data monitoring committee conducted once all patients have completed three months in the first Phase 3 clinical trial. We may face competition to enroll BPH patients in our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials from other clinical trials for other sponsors including potential competitors. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Delays in enrollment in our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 would result in delays in our ability to pursue regulatory approval of PRX302. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance also may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing and successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we must terminate, any clinical trial of PRX302, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for that product candidate will be delayed and the commercial prospects, if any, for the product candidate may be harmed. If we ultimately commercialize PRX302, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our product candidates. 26 Table of Contents We expect to rely upon multiple CROs to conduct and oversee our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials for PRX302. If any of our CROs does not meet our deadlines or otherwise conduct the trials as required or if any CRO experiences regulatory compliance issues we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidate when expected or at all. We have entered into agreements with multiple CROs for our first Phase 3 clinical trial of PRX302. We also rely upon medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our trials in accordance with our clinical protocols and in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These third parties play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data from the clinical trials. There is no guarantee that any such third party will devote adequate time and resources to our clinical trial. If any of our CROs or any other third parties upon which we rely for administration and conduct of our clinical trials do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or if they otherwise perform in a substandard manner, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to complete development of and ultimately obtain approval for and successfully commercialize PRX302. We will rely heavily on these third parties for the execution of our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials and will control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with current Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCP regulations through periodic inspections of clinical trial sponsors, principal investigators and clinical trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and our submission of marketing applications may be delayed or the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply or complied with applicable GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA, and our clinical trials require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. If any of our clinical trial sites terminates for any reason, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trial unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. Further, if our relationship with any of our CROs is terminated, we may be unable to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Switching or adding CROs can involve substantial cost and require extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationship with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter such challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse developments that occur during any clinical trials conducted by Kissei may affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize PRX302. Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Kissei, retains the rights to develop and commercialize PRX302 in Japan for the treatment of the symptoms of BPH, prostate cancer, prostatitis or other diseases of the prostate. If serious adverse events occur during this or any other clinical trials Kissei decides to conduct with respect to PRX302, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may delay, limit or deny approval of PRX302 or require us to conduct additional clinical trials as a condition to marketing approval, which would increase our costs. If we receive FDA approval for PRX302 and a new and serious safety issue is identified in connection with clinical trials conducted by Kissei, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or otherwise restrict our ability to market and sell our product. In addition, treating physicians may be less willing to administer our product due to concerns over such adverse events, which would limit our ability to commercialize PRX302. 27 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of any investment in our common shares. Our predecessor, Protox Pharmaceuticals Inc., was incorporated in January 2002. We were formed in May 2003 under the predecessor to the British Columbia Business Corporations Act, or the BCBCA, by the amalgamation of Stratos Biotechnologies Inc., Nucleus BioScience Inc. and Brightwave Ventures Inc. under the name SNB Capital Corp. In July 2004, we acquired all the shares of Protox Pharmaceuticals Inc. in a plan of arrangement under the BCBCA and changed its name to Protox Therapeutics Inc. In 2011, we formed a wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, Protox Therapeutics Corp. In 2012, we changed our name to Sophiris Bio Inc. and changed the name of our subsidiary to Sophiris Bio Corp. In 2012, Sophiris Bio Corp. formed a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, Sophiris Bio Holding Corp. We face considerable risks and difficulties as a company with limited operating history, particularly as a consolidated entity with an operating subsidiary that also has a limited operating history. If we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely harmed. Our limited operating history makes it particularly difficult for us to predict our future operating results and appropriately budget for our expenses. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially affected. We have limited experience as a consolidated operating entity, and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology areas. We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and from minimally invasive surgical therapies and surgical alternatives, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the United States and international markets, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff, experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis, products that are more effective, easier to administer and/or less costly than PRX302. We expect that PRX302 will compete with the current treatment options for the symptoms of BPH, which include oral drug therapy and surgery. Oral drug therapies include (a) a-blockers, such as tamsulosin (marketed under various trade names by numerous companies, including as Flomax® by Astellas Pharma), alfuzosin (marketed in the United States by Sanofi as Uroxatral®), doxazosin (marketed by Pfizer as Cardura® and Cardura® XL) and silodosin (marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals as Rapaflo® in the United States), (b) 5-a reductase inhibitors, such as dutasteride (marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc as Avodart®) and finasteride (marketed by Merck & Co., Inc. as Proscar®), (c) combinations of a-blockers and 5-a reductase inhibitors such as tamsulosin and dutasteride (marketed by GSK as Jalyn®) and (d) tadalafil (marketed as Cialis® by Eli Lilly), a PDE5 inhibitor which obtained FDA approval for the treatment of the symptoms of BPH in October 2011. Several minimally invasive surgical therapies, or MIST, are available, including transurethral microwave thermotherapy, or TUMT, transurethral needle ablation, or TUNA, photo-selective vaporization of prostate, holmium laser enucleation of the prostate, transurethral electrovaporization of the prostate, interstitial laser coagulation, and the UroLift® system (marketed by NeoTract, Inc.), which is an implant delivered into the body via a small needle and designed to hold prostate tissue out of the way of the blocked urethra. Currently, the most commonly used MIST procedures are laser ablations of the prostate, TUMT, and TUNA. Surgery for BPH treatment is usually considered in patients who fail drug therapy as a result of side effects or inadequate relief of symptoms, have refractory urinary retention, or have recurrent urinary tract infections. Alternatively, surgery may be the initial treatment in patients with severe urinary symptoms. Surgical procedures for BPH include transurethral resection of the prostate, as well as other procedures such as transurethral incision of the prostate and transurethral vaporization of the prostate. The availability and price of our competitors’ products and procedures could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for PRX302. We will not successfully execute on our business objectives if the market acceptance of PRX302 is inhibited by price competition, if physicians are reluctant to switch from existing products or procedures to PRX302 or if physicians switch to other new products or surgeries or choose to reserve PRX302 for use in limited patient populations. In addition, established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license and develop novel compounds that could make PRX302 obsolete. 28 Table of Contents Any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to be approved and overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, obtaining FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. The inability to compete with existing products or subsequently introduced products would have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we obtain and maintain approval for PRX302 from the FDA, we may never obtain approval for PRX302 outside of the United States, which would limit our market opportunities and adversely affect our business. Sales of PRX302 outside of the United States will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of the product candidates in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. In many countries outside the United States, a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval. We may decide to submit an MAA to the EMA for approval in the EEA. As with the FDA, obtaining approval of an MAA from the EMA is a similarly lengthy and expensive process and the EMA has its own procedures for approval of product candidates. Even if a product is approved, the FDA or the EMA, as the case may be, may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulatory authorities in countries outside of the United States and the EEA also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those countries. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Also, regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of PRX302 will be harmed and our business will be adversely affected. We will be, with respect to any product candidate for which we obtain FDA approval, subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Any regulatory approvals that we obtain for our product candidate may also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including post-marketing studies and clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority, like the EMA, approves a product candidate, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export, tracking and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs for marketed drugs and drugs used in clinical trials and GCPs for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; • fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic partners, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and • injunctions, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, or exclusions. 29 Table of Contents The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the recently enacted federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act, imposes new obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products, among others, related to product tracking and tracing. Among the requirements of this new federal legislation, manufacturers will be required to provide certain information regarding the drug product to individuals and entities to which product ownership is transferred, label drug product with a product identifier, and keep certain records regarding the drug product. Further, under this new legislation, manufacturers will have drug product investigation, quarantine, disposition, and notification responsibilities related to counterfeit, diverted, stolen, and intentionally adulterated products, as well as products that are the subject of fraudulent transactions or which are otherwise unfit for distribution such that they would be reasonably likely to result in serious health consequences or death. We will need to increase the size of our organization and the scope of our outside vendor relationships, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2013 we had eight full-time employees and one-part time employee. In addition, we have engaged part-time individual consultants to assist us with establishing accounting systems, managing vendors and CROs, project management, regulatory compliance and business development. We will need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development activities, and commercialize our product candidate. Our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively, including our two planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302; • manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors and other third parties; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees; and • manage our regulatory compliance oversight and infrastructure. To date, we have utilized the services of third-party vendors to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development and other drug development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on numerous consultants, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidate or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may be unable to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize our product candidate and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. The terms of our senior debt facility require us to meet certain operating and financial covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. In July 2011, we entered into a $15 million senior secured loan with Oxford Finance LLC, or Oxford, which, as amended, we refer to as the Oxford Loan. The Oxford Loan is secured by a lien covering all of our assets, including intellectual property, and we also pledged as collateral all of our equity interests in Sophiris Bio Corp. and Sophiris Bio Holding Corp. We are obligated to make monthly payments of principal and interest through the maturity date of November 1, 2014, assuming there is no default that results in acceleration of the debt. In connection with the Oxford Loan, we entered into an investment letter agreement, or the Investment Letter, with Oxford, which grants Oxford the right to purchase up to $1 million of specified securities in connection with a qualified financing involving the private sale of our common shares or common-convertible securities through October 2014, subject to additional restrictions described in the Investment Letter. 30 Table of Contents The loan agreement governing the Oxford Loan contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, indemnification provisions and events of default. The affirmative covenants include, among others, covenants requiring us to maintain our legal existence and governmental approvals, deliver certain financial reports and maintain certain intellectual property rights. The negative covenants include, among others, restrictions on transferring or licensing our assets, changing our business, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, and creating other liens on our assets, in each case subject to customary exceptions. If we default under the Oxford Loan, Oxford may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, Oxford’s right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. Oxford could declare a default under the Oxford Loan upon the occurrence of any event that Oxford interprets as a material adverse change as defined under the loan agreement, thereby requiring us to repay the loan immediately or to attempt to reverse the declaration of default through negotiation or litigation. Any declaration by Oxford of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. We rely on third parties to manufacture PRX302 and an ingredient used in the diluent used to administer PRX302, and we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies of PRX302, if and when it is approved. The development and commercialization of PRX302 could be stopped or delayed if any such third party fails to provide us with sufficient quantities of the product or the diluent or fails to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices or fails to maintain or achieve satisfactory regulatory compliance. We do not currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for use in the conduct of our clinical trials, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture PRX302 on a clinical or commercial scale. Instead, we rely on our third-party manufacturing partner, Boehringer Ingleheim RCV GmbH & Co KG, or BI, located in Austria, for the production of PRX302 and BI Germany for fill and testing services pursuant to an agreement which we entered into in 2011. BI currently procures an ingredient used in the formulation of PRX302 from a multinational industrial biotech company which is a single source supplier, on a purchase order basis. The facilities used by our third-party manufacturer to manufacture PRX302 and any other potential product candidates that we may develop in the future must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, including the FDA, pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after we submit our BLA to the FDA. We do not control the manufacturing processes of BI and are currently completely dependent on BI for the production of PRX302 in accordance with cGMPs, which include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Although we have entered into an agreement for the manufacture of clinical supplies and initial commercial supplies of PRX302, BI may not perform as agreed, may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements or may terminate its agreement with us. Moreover, we have not entered into a commercial supply agreement with BI and BI has not demonstrated that it will be capable of manufacturing PRX302 on a large commercial scale. Further, if our single source provider is unable to or decides to no longer supply BI or us with an ingredient for the diluent, we could experience delays in obtaining product for clinical trials until we procured another source or until we reformulate the product. Reformulation could result in significant further delays as we would be required to conduct additional clinical trials. If our third-party manufacturer cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the applicable regulatory authorities’ strict regulatory requirements, or pass regulatory inspection, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of any third-party manufacturer to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities do not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our products or if they withdraw any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or third-party manufacturer decide they no longer want to supply our biologic or manufacture our products, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our products. We might be unable to identify manufacturers for long-term commercial supply on acceptable terms or at all. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other governmental authorities to ensure strict compliance with government regulations. Currently, our contract manufacturer is located outside the United States and the FDA has recently increased the number of foreign drug manufacturers which it inspects. As a result, our third-party manufacturer may be subject to increased scrutiny. If we were to experience an unexpected loss of PRX302 supply, we could experience delays in our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials as BI would need to manufacture additional PRX302 and would need sufficient lead time to schedule a manufacturing slot. This is due to the fact that, given its nature, PRX302 cannot be manufactured in the BI facility at the same time as other biologics. 31 Table of Contents PRX302 is manufactured by starting with cells which are stored in a cell bank. We have one master cell bank and multiple working cell banks and believe we would have adequate backup should any cell bank be lost in a catastrophic event. However, it is possible that we could lose multiple cell banks and have our manufacturing severely impacted by the need to replace the cell banks. The manufacture of biopharmaceutical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. We and our contract manufacturers must comply with cGMP regulations and guidelines. Manufacturers of biopharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and contamination. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or in the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot assure you that any stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of any of our products will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturer may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturer were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide any product candidates to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely. Any adverse developments affecting clinical or commercial manufacturing of our products may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls, the need to reformulate our product or other interruptions in the supply of our products. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Accordingly, failures or difficulties faced at any level of our supply chain could materially adversely affect our business and delay or impede the development and commercialization of any of our products or product candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate revenues from PRX302 will be subject to attaining significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers. PRX302, if approved, may not attain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from PRX302 will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of our products as well as competitive drugs; • efficacy and safety of PRX302; • the clinical indication(s) for which PRX302 is approved; • continued projected growth of the urological disease markets, including incidence of BPH; • acceptance by patients, primary care specialists and key specialists, including urologists; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages of PRX302 over alternative treatments, including cost of treatment and relative convenience and ease of administration and length of sustained benefits from treatment; • strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; • the price of PRX302, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • the effect of current and future healthcare laws; • availability of coverage and adequate coverage, reimbursement and pricing from government and other third-party payers; and • product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If PRX302 is approved but fails to attain market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers, or the medical community, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Coverage and reimbursement may not be available, or may be available at only limited levels, for PRX302, which could make it difficult for us to sell PRX302 profitably. Market acceptance and sales of PRX302 will depend in large part on global reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the United States and other key international markets. Patients who are prescribed medicine for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third party payers to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Therefore, successful commercialization of our product will depend in part on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of PRX302 and/or payment to the physician for administering PRX302. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payer to payer. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. One third-party payer’s decision to cover a particular medical product or service does not assure that other payers will also provide coverage for the medical product or service, or to provide coverage at an adequate reimbursement rate. As a result, the coverage determination process will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that adequate coverage and reimbursement will be obtained. Further, a third-party payer’s decision to provide coverage for a medical product or service does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. The market for our product candidates will depend significantly on access to third-party payers’ formularies, or lists of treatments for which third-party payers provide coverage and reimbursement. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish coverage and reimbursement policies for new products, including product candidates like PRX302. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third-party payers often provide reimbursement for treatments based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the United States, the EEA and other significant or potentially significant markets for our product candidate, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in Canada and the EEA will put additional pressure on product pricing, coverage, reimbursement and utilization, which may adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from policies and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the United States. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: (i) an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; (ii) an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; (iii) a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; (iv) extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; (v) expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; (vi) expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; (vii) expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance; and (viii) a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. We cannot predict whether legal challenges will result in changes to the PPACA or if other legislative changes will be adopted, or how such changes would affect our business. 33 Table of Contents In the EEA, the success of PRX302, if approved, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use therapies that are not reimbursed by the government. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently, many countries in the EEA have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceutical products and other therapies, and we expect these discounts to continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of current economic conditions. As a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to achieve profitability or expected rates of growth in revenue or results of operations. Any shortfalls in revenue could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Certain countries have a very difficult reimbursement environment and we may not obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, if required, in all countries where we expect to market a product, or we may obtain reimbursement approval at a level that would make marketing a product in certain countries not viable We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of PRX302, if approved, and any other products that we may develop, due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and expected revenue and profitability which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire, develop and/or market additional products and product candidates. Because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. 34 Table of Contents Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured profitably or achieve market acceptance. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future CROs and other contractors and consultants and collaborators are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on third parties to manufacture PRX302 and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development and commercialization of our product candidate could be delayed. Business interruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, systems failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business interruptions could seriously harm our business and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. A majority of our management operates in our principal executive offices located in San Diego, California. If our San Diego offices were affected by a natural or man-made disaster, particularly those that are characteristic of the region, such as wildfires and earthquakes, or other business interruption, our ability to manage our domestic and foreign operations could be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely, and intend to rely in the future, on our third-party manufacturer, BI, which is located in Austria and Germany, to produce our supply of PRX302. Our ability to obtain supplies PRX302 could be disrupted, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the operations of BI were affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. The ultimate impact of such events on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure is unknown. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we and our third-party manufacturer must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturer’s activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of PRX302 and other hazardous compounds. Specifically, the cleavage of the PSA-sensitive activation sequence of PRX302 in the manufacturing process could potentially lead to the release of the C-terminal inhibitory peptide resulting in the formation of active aerolysin, a pore-forming hemolytic toxin. We and our manufacturer are subject to federal, state and local as well as foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturer for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. BI, our third-party manufacturer, does not manufacture PRX302 in its facility at the same time as it manufactures other biologics due to the toxic nature of aerolysin. In the event of an accident, state, federal or foreign authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. If we are subject to any liability as a result of our third-party manufacturer’s activities involving hazardous materials, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In the future we may seek to establish longer term third-party manufacturing arrangements, pursuant to which we would seek to obtain contractual indemnification protection from such third-party manufacturers potentially limiting this liability exposure. 35 Table of Contents If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing and, if approved, the commercialization of PRX302. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability or a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state or foreign consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidate. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product or product candidates that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • initiation of investigations by regulators; • costs to defend the related litigation; • a diversion of management’s time and our resources; • substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients; • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; • loss of revenue; • exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; • the inability to commercialize our products or product candidates; and • a decline in our share price. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical studies and commercial product sales in the amount of $10 million in the aggregate. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of any product, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific and medical personnel, including our Executive Chairman, Lars Ekman, M.D., Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer and President, Randall E. Woods, and our Chief Operating Officer and Head of Research and Development, Allison Hulme, Ph.D. In order to retain valuable employees at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide incentive stock options that vest over time. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time will be significantly affected by movements in our share price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Our scientific team in particular has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and development, and may be difficult to retain or replace. We conduct our operations at our facilities in San Diego, California and this region is headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions and therefore we face increased competition for personnel in this location. Competition for skilled personnel in our market is very intense and competition for experienced scientists may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. 36 Table of Contents In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management and scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have written employment arrangements with all of our employees, these employment arrangements provide for at-will employment, which means that our employees can leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, financial condition and prospects. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our employees, independent contractors, consultants, commercial partners and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other illegal activity by our employees, independent contractors, consultants, commercial partners and vendors. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct that fails to: comply with the laws of the FDA and other similar regulatory bodies; provide true, complete and accurate information to the FDA and other similar regulatory bodies; comply with manufacturing standards we have established; comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and other similar foreign fraudulent misconduct laws; or report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. These laws may impact, among other things, our activities with principal investigators and research subjects, as well as our sales, marketing and education programs. In particular, the promotion, sales, and marketing of health care items and services, as well as certain business arrangements in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive laws intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, structuring and commission(s), certain customer incentive programs and other business arrangements generally. Misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. Additionally, we are subject to state and foreign equivalents of each of the healthcare laws described above, some of which may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of the payer. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent inappropriate conduct may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop, we may not be able to effectively market and sell our products and generate product revenue. We are developing PRX302 for large patient populations served by urologists as well as general practice physicians, which number in the tens of thousands in the United States. Traditional pharmaceutical companies employ groups of sales representatives numbering in the thousands to call on this large of a number of physicians. We do not currently have an organization for the sale, marketing or distribution of PRX302 and we must build this organization or make arrangements with third parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize PRX302 and any future products. We intend to establish (either internally or through a contract sales force) a sales force to sell PRX302, if approved, in the United States. We plan to partner with third parties to commercialize PRX302 outside the United States. The establishment and development of our own sales force or the establishment of a contract sales force to market any products we may develop in the United States will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any products we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell such products in the United States. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing our own internal sales force or in establishing arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, if at all. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We will need to obtain additional financing to complete the development and commercialization of PRX302 and to repay existing debt and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development program or commercialization efforts. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. Since inception, we have raised approximately $111 million from the sale of equity securities in private placements and public offerings as well as approximately $9 million from the exercise of common share purchase warrants. In July 2011, we entered into the Oxford Loan for $15 million, which we are repaying over a 39-month period. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to repay our Oxford Loan, to continue clinical development, including the conduct of our planned Phase 3 clinical trials and any future required clinical development, and seek regulatory approval for PRX302, and to launch and commercialize PRX302, if approved. We expect that our existing cash, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may need to spend more money than currently expected because of circumstances beyond our control. For example, our ongoing or planned Phase 3 clinical trial may encounter technical, enrollment or other issues that could cause our development costs to increase more than we expected. In any event, we expect that we will require additional capital to complete development of PRX302, including completion of both of our planned Phase 3 clinical trials, and to obtain regulatory approval of and to commercialize PRX302. We expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Subject to limited exceptions, the Oxford Loan also prohibits us from incurring indebtedness without the prior written consent of Oxford. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of PRX302. We also could be required to: • seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common shares to decline. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history and we have financed our operations primarily through equity and debt financings and have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. We had a net loss of $11.1 million, $21.2 million, and $14.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $84.8 million. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ deficit and working capital. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research activities for PRX302. We anticipate that our operating losses will substantially increase over the next several years as we continue development of PRX302, including the conduct of our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of PRX302, we may incur significant sales and marketing expenses and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued development expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable. 38 Table of Contents We have not generated any product revenue and may never become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to develop and commercialize PRX302. To date, other than the upfront payment we received from Kissei and the $5.0 million milestone payment we received in April 2013 from Kissei for the achievement of development milestones, we have not generated any revenue from PRX302 and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any future revenue. Our ability to generate future revenue depends on a number of factors, including: • successfully completing our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials for PRX302; • obtaining U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approvals for PRX302; • manufacturing commercial quantities of PRX302 at acceptable costs levels if regulatory approvals are received; • achieving broad market acceptance of PRX302 in the medical community and with third-party payors and patients; and • creating an internal commercial infrastructure or identifying and entering into one or more strategic collaborations to effectively market and sell PRX302. We may never be able to successfully develop or commercialize PRX302. Even if we do obtain regulatory approval to commercialize PRX302, which we do not expect to occur for several years, we may never generate product sales and may never achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish intellectual property rights to our product candidates. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Debt financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase shares, which could also result in dilution of our existing shareholders’ ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and may not use them effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, or IPO. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from our IPO, their ultimate use may vary substantially from their currently intended use. Our management may not apply our cash from our IPO in ways that ultimately increase the value of any investment in our securities. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. We have invested the net proceeds from our IPO in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our shareholders. If we do not invest or apply our cash in ways that enhance shareholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our common shares to decline. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and share price. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the past several years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult to complete, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and share price and could require us to delay or abandon development or commercialization plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. 39 Table of Contents At December 31, 2013, we had $14.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $33.3 million in securities available-for-sale. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents since December 31, 2013, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and/or liquidity of cash equivalents owned by us. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in changes in our reported revenues and earnings. We currently incur expenses denominated in foreign currencies, specifically in connection with our manufacturing and supply agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG for the manufacture of PRX302, for which payments are denominated in euro. In addition, we expect that we will utilize numerous clinical trial sites as part of our first Phase 3 clinical trial for PRX302 which will be located in various countries outside of the United States. We expect that these clinical trial sites will invoice us in the local currency of the site. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements for our accounts payable, and, consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 36.2% and 38.2%, respectively, of our operating expenses were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Going forward we anticipate that our sales and expenses, if any, will be denominated in the local currency of the country in which they occur. We may decide to manage this risk by hedging our foreign currency exposure, principally through derivative contracts. Even if we decide to enter into such hedging transactions, we cannot be sure that such hedges will be effective or that the costs of such hedges will not exceed their benefits. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the euro, could result in material amounts of cash being required to settle the hedge transactions or could adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our product candidates. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover the products in Canada, the United States or in other foreign countries. If this were to occur, early generic competition could be expected against product candidates in development. There is no assurance that all of the potentially relevant prior art relating to our patents and patent applications has been found, which can invalidate a patent or prevent a patent from issuing based on a pending patent application. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed or invalidated. Composition-of-matter patents on the biological or chemical active pharmaceutical ingredient are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as such patents provide protection without regard to any method of use. We cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications covering composition-of-matter of PRX302 will be considered patentable by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, and courts in the United States or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications, physicians may prescribe these products off-label. Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the patent applications we hold with respect to PRX302 fail to issue or if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop them, and threaten our ability to commercialize, our products. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue or whether any issued patents will be found not invalid and not unenforceable or will go unthreatened by third parties. Further, if we encounter delays in regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market PRX302 under patent protection could be reduced. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, and some remain so until issued, we cannot be certain that we were the first to file any patent application related to PRX302. Furthermore, if third parties have filed such patent applications, an interference proceeding in the United States can be provoked by a third party or instituted by us to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. 40 Table of Contents In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we expect all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed or that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law in September 2011 and includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include changes in the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. PTO is currently developing regulations and procedures to administer the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the cost of prosecuting our patent applications, our ability to obtain patents based on our patent applications and our ability to enforce or defend our issued patents. An inability to obtain, enforce and defend patents covering our proprietary technologies would materially and adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States and Canada. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the non-patented intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will have any such enforceable trade secret protection, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter party reexamination proceedings before the U.S. PTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we, and our collaborators, are developing product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of PRX302. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. We are aware of at least one third-party patent that may be relevant to our product candidates. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our product candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such product candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents do not exist which might be enforced against our products, resulting in either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation to third parties. 41 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of technology licenses that are essential to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we have an exclusive license to PRX302 from UVIC Industry Partnerships Inc. and The Johns Hopkins University. If we fail to comply with our obligations under that license agreement or our other license agreements, or we are insolvent or subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license agreement, including PRX302. We may also be subjected to litigation or other potential disputes under our license agreements if we fail to comply with our obligations under those agreements. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Our defense of litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of our employees’ former employers or other third parties. We may also be subject to claims that former employers or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. There is no guarantee of success in defending these claims, and if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and other employees. 42 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, including China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our product candidates and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares U.S. holders of our shares may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company after 2012. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on the composition of our gross income and gross assets and the nature of our business, we expect that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2012 and that we may be a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2013. In 2013 and for future years, our status as a passive foreign investment company will also depend on whether we are a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, how quickly we utilize the cash proceeds from our IPO in our business and other factors. If we are a PFIC for 2013 or any subsequent year, U.S. holders of our shares may suffer adverse tax consequences. Gains realized by non-corporate U.S. holders on the sale of our ordinary shares would be taxed as ordinary income, rather than as capital gain, and the preferential tax rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares would be lost. Interest charges would also be added to taxes on gains and dividends realized by all U.S. holders. A U.S. holder may avoid these adverse tax consequences by timely making a qualified electing fund election. For each year that we would meet the PFIC gross income or asset test, an electing U.S. holder would be required to include in gross income its pro rata share of our net ordinary income and net capital gains, if any. A U.S. holder may make a qualified electing fund election only if we commit to provide U.S. holders with their pro rata share of our net ordinary income and net capital gains. Because we intend to provide this information, a U.S. holder should be eligible to make a qualified electing fund election. A U.S. holder may also mitigate the adverse tax consequences of being a PFIC by timely making a mark-to-market election. Generally, for each year that we would meet the PFIC gross income or asset test, an electing U.S. holder would include in gross income the increase in the value of its shares during each of its taxable years and deduct from gross income the decrease in the value of such shares during each of its taxable years. A mark-to-market election may be made and maintained only if our shares are regularly traded on a qualified exchange. While we anticipate that these requirements will be satisfied following our IPO, whether our shares are regularly traded on a qualified exchange is an annual determination based on facts that, in part, are beyond our control. Accordingly, we can provide no assurances that a U.S. holder will be eligible to make a mark-to-market election. You should consult your own tax advisor as to the specific tax consequences to you in the event we are characterized as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2013. 43 Table of Contents The financial reporting obligations of being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the public company reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations regarding corporate governance practices, including those under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, and the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. As a result, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. Further, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our corporate governance standards, disclosure controls and financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations. Any changes that we make to comply with these obligations may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis, or at all, which could subject us to delisting of our common shares, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. In addition, we incur significant legal, accounting, reporting and other expenses in order to maintain a listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. These expenses relate to, among other things, the obligation to present financial information according to U.S. GAAP in the United States. We are also required to comply with certain disclosure and filing requirements under applicable securities laws in Canada as a reporting issuer in certain provinces. The price of our common shares is likely to be highly volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Prior to our recently completed IPO, there was no public market for our common shares in the United States. The trading price of our common shares is likely to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including limited trading volume. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, these factors include: • the commencement, enrollment or results of our ongoing and planned Phase 3 clinical trials of PRX302 or any future clinical trials we may conduct, or changes in the development status of PRX302; • any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA’s review of our plan for our two Phase 3 clinical trials, or delay in our submission of a BLA to the FDA for PRX302; • unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of PRX302; • adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for PRX302; • our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; • our ability to obtain resources for us and our clinical trial programs on our desired schedule; • inability to obtain adequate commercial supply for any approved product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; • developments concerning our commercial partners, including but not limited to, those with manufacturers; • competition from existing technologies and products or new technologies and products that may emerge; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, new products, capital commitments or other events by us or our competitors; • the inability to establish collaborations or termination of a collaboration; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public; • our cash position; • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; • issuances of debt or equity securities; • our inability to successfully enter new markets or develop additional product candidates; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rate; • sales of our common shares by us, or our shareholders in the future; 44 Table of Contents • trading volume of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Market and price; • market conditions in our industry; • overall performance of the equity markets and general political and economic conditions; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key management, scientific or other personnel; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities or industry analysts; • changes in the market valuation of similar companies; • disputes or other developments related to intellectual property and other proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies and product candidates; • changes in laws or regulations and policies applicable to product candidates, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; • changes in accounting practices; • significant lawsuits, including patent or shareholder litigation; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common shares. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common shares. Certain holders of our common shares are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these shareholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares. Future sales and issuances of our common shares or rights to purchase common shares by us, including pursuant to our equity incentive plan, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our shareholders and could cause our share price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including commercialization efforts, expanded research and development activities and costs associated with operating as a public company. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity or convertible securities, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common shares, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common shares, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing shareholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing shareholders. Pursuant to our equity incentive plan, our management is authorized to grant options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our plan is equal to 10% of all shares of our issued and outstanding common shares at any time. Currently, the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plan each year automatically increases when we issue additional common shares. If our board of directors elects to grant additional options each year our shareholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our share price to fall. 45 Table of Contents We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biochemical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares so any returns will be limited to the value of our shares. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common shares. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The Oxford Loan also contains a negative covenant which prohibits us from paying dividends without the prior written consent of Oxford. Any return to shareholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our share price. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31, or if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three year period before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company immediately. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a “smaller reporting company” which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our share price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Our charter documents, certain related party contracts and certain Canadian legislation could delay or deter a change of control, limit attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common shares. Our authorized preferred shares are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our articles grant our board of directors the authority, subject to the BCBCA, to determine the special rights and restrictions granted to or imposed on any unissued series of preferred shares, and those rights may be superior to those of our common shares. In addition, provisions in the BCBCA and in our articles, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our management, including provisions that: • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of a supermajority of our outstanding share capital to amend our articles and our notice of articles. 46 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Any of the foregoing could prevent or delay a change of control and may deprive or limit strategic opportunities to our shareholders to sell their shares. Risks Related To Being A Canadian Entity We are governed by the corporate laws in British Columbia, Canada which in some cases have a different effect on shareholders than the corporate laws in Delaware, United States. The material differences between the BCBCA as compared to the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which may be of most interest to shareholders include the following: (i) for material corporate transactions (such as mergers and amalgamations, other extraordinary corporate transactions, amendments to our articles) the BCBCA generally requires two-thirds majority vote by shareholders, whereas DGCL generally only requires a majority vote of shareholders for similar material corporate transactions; (ii) the quorum for shareholders meetings is not prescribed under the BCBCA and is only two persons representing 5% of the issued shares under our articles, whereas under DGCL, quorum requires a minimum of one-third of the shares entitled to vote to be present and companies’ certificates of incorporation frequently require a higher percentage to be present; (iii) under the BCBCA a holder of 5% or more of our common shares can requisition a special meeting at which any matters that can be voted on at our annual meeting can be considered, whereas the DGCL does not give this right; (iv) our articles require two-thirds majority vote by shareholders to pass a resolution for one or more directors to be removed, whereas DGCL only requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the stockholders; however, many public company charters limit removal of directors to a removal for cause; and (v) our articles may be amended by resolution of our directors to alter our authorized share structure, including to (a) consolidate or subdivide any of our shares and (b) create additional classes or series of shares, whereas under DGCL, a majority vote by shareholders is generally required to amend a corporation’s certificate of incorporation and a separate class vote may be required to authorize alterations to a corporation’s authorized share structure. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because of these material differences. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our share price may be more volatile. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 