ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since becoming an operating division within Compuware in 2004, including fiscal 2014. These losses were mainly due to the investments we made, and continue to make, to build our solutions 8Table of Contentsand services, grow and maintain our business and acquire customers. Key elements of our growth strategy include acquiring new customers and continuing to innovate and enhance our platform. In addition, we incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses to become a public company, and we will continue to incur many of these expenses in the future. We will incur significant stock compensation expense during 2015 and 2016 as a result of certain option grants made while we were an operating division of Compuware. Furthermore, to the extent that we are successful in increasing our customer base, we will incur increased expenses, as costs associated with generating and supporting customer agreements are generally incurred up front, while revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. As set forth in more detail below, we cannot predict our revenue growth, and you should not rely upon our revenue growth in fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014, as indicative of our future performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will reach profitability in the future or at any specific time in the future or that, if and when we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. If we are ultimately unable to meet our financial targets to create sufficient revenue to become profitable and have sustainable positive cash flows, investors could lose all or part of their investment.We derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from the automotive and healthcare industries, two industries undergoing significant change, and our business could be harmed by our inability to predict the direction of the change and/or by any downturn in these industries.Over 81% of our revenue is generated from the automotive and healthcare industries. These two industries are undergoing a significant transformation with digitalization. While we believe our offering in the automotive sector is unique and compelling, we may not be able to capitalize on the opportunity for a variety of reasons, including the uncertain economic conditions for the automotive sector. Any new negative developments in this industry could reduce the demand for our solutions and increase the collection risk of accounts receivable from these customers.Over the past five years, digitalization has been forcing significant change within the healthcare industry. The imperatives of the Affordable Care Act will continue to force significant change in the tools used to deliver healthcare related information technology in the future. While we believe our platform provides a stable and scalable platform for the integration of the tools that will be used to deliver the required digitalization in the healthcare industry, we have made investments in building an offering to the healthcare industry which may not prove to be successful in the long run. If we fail to select the tools necessary to meet industry requirements in the future, the demand for our solutions could be reduced. Further, our customers in the healthcare industry may be subject to adverse changes in government regulation, the availability of government funding and reimbursement policies and practices. Any adverse change could reduce the demand for our solutions.A substantial downturn in either of these industries may cause our customers to reduce their spending on information technology. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology projects, seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts, or decrease their usage of our solutions. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in these industries may result in reduced overall spending on our solutions. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from our largest customer, General Motors Company, as well as our ten largest customers. Our revenue from General Motors during fiscal 2014 was $24.9 million or 26% of our total revenue. Our revenue from General Motors decreased in fiscal 2014 as a percentage of our total revenue from 33% in fiscal 2013. We expect revenues generated by sales to General Motors to continue to decrease as a percentage of total revenues as we continue to expand our customer base and implement our growth strategies. Moreover, General Motors has the ability to terminate the contracts we have with it prior to their expiration on six months’ notice. It was reported in July 2012 that General Motors intends to significantly reduce its use of outsourced information technology services over the next three to five years, and General Motors has been building its information technology capabilities to reduce its reliance on outsourced IT services. As a result, we cannot predict how our business with General Motors will be affected by General Motors' continuing efforts to insource its IT services. Losing all or a significant portion of our business with General Motors could have a material impact on our business, liquidity and results of operations.Our revenue from AT&T during fiscal 2014 was $12.0 million or 12% of our total revenue. AT&T is a reseller of our platform to its customers in the healthcare industry. We have been verbally informed by AT&T that is has ceased selling our platform to new customers and new projects to existing customers.In addition, our top ten customers, including those we sold through and invoiced to our strategic partners, may terminate their agreements upon advance written notice to us. The loss of any of these customers would decrease our revenue and adversely affect our operating results.9Table of ContentsOur quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which could cause declines or volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors which may be outside our control. If our quarterly or annual operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. The following factors, among others, could cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results:Our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers;Our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses;Our ability to expand into new markets, introduce new solutions and integrate them with third-party software and devices;The actions of our competitors, including consolidation within the industry, pricing changes or the introduction of new services;Our ability to effectively manage our growth;Our ability to improve the margin in our services revenue through enhancing the availability of variable resources;Our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies;The timing and cost of developing or acquiring technologies, solutions or businesses;The timing of revenue recognition for our services;The timing of revenue recognition for new subscriptions;The timing, operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance and expansion of our business;The annual increase in fourth quarter revenue relating to fees from our Physician Quality Reporting System offering;Service outages or security breaches and any related occurrences which could impact our reputation;The impact of worldwide economic, industry and market conditions, including disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in some countries and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; Variable usage by customers with volume-based subscription contracts;Trade protection measures (such as tariffs and duties) and import or export licensing requirements;Fluctuations in currency exchange rates;Costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; andChanges in government regulation affecting our business.We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance.We cannot accurately predict subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solution after the expiration of their initial subscription period, which is typically 36 months, and some customers have elected not to renew. In addition, our customers may renew at a lower contract value or renew for shorter contract lengths. We cannot predict our renewal rates as they may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our service, customers’ ability to continue their operations and spending levels, decreases in usage by our customers, competitive offerings and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions or reduce the value of their subscription at the time of renewal, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our results of operations will be adversely affected.10Table of ContentsWe may not be able to maintain pricing levels or increase sales to our existing customers or to new customers, which could negatively impact our future revenue and financial results.A part of our growth strategy is to sell additional solutions to existing customers and to encourage these customers to extend the deployment of previously acquired solutions. If our customers are unsatisfied with, or are unsuccessful at increasing the adoption of, the existing solutions they have purchased from us, or if we are unsuccessful at marketing and selling additional solutions to them, our revenue from these customers may not increase, and may decrease. Our growth strategy also includes selling our solutions to new customers. As we are in the early stages for the adoption of our technology, we may find our current pricing models need to be modified to support the business. If we do not increase our sales to existing customers or to new customers or maintain our pricing levels, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our results of operations will be adversely affected.Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which are typically 36 months, although terms can range from one to 60 months or longer. As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is related to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our subscription revenue results for that quarter and will negatively affect our subscription revenue growth rate or subscription revenue in future quarters. As our annual subscription revenue ("ASR") bookings in fiscal 2014 was lower than expected, we anticipate that the growth in our subscription revenue in 2015 will be slower, at least during the first half of 2015. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription revenue through additional sales in any period, as subscription revenue from new customers is typically subject to multi-month implementation and must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, despite our efforts to increase our ability to have variable costs for the implementation of our platform, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect unanticipated changes in revenue. We have had a material weakness in the past. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect investor views of us and the value of our common stock.Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the audits of our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we concluded there was a material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.We implemented changes in our internal control over financial reporting which we believe allowed us to upgrade the material weakness to a significant deficiency as of March 31, 2013. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that creates a reasonable possibility that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During fiscal 2014, many steps were performed to address the significant deficiency, including the development and implementation of governance and financial policies, improved processes, documented procedures (including a formal, documented financial risk assessment) and hiring additional personnel. Based on the work performed, we believe that the significant deficiency has been remediated as of March 31, 2014. At this time, we cannot assure you that the measures we have taken will be effective in mitigating or preventing significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we fail to effectively remediate deficiencies in our control environment or are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting to meet the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or to report them within the timeframes required by law or exchange regulations.We have not performed an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, such as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, nor have we engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting as of any balance sheet date or for any period reported in our financial statements. Had we performed such an evaluation or had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, control deficiencies, including material weaknesses and significant deficiencies, in addition to the control deficiency discussed above, may have been identified. The SEC rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act do 11Table of Contentsnot require our management to provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the second annual report after we become a public company. Moreover, we are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, and as such we may elect to avail ourselves of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we cease to be an “emerging growth company.” As discussed above, we have in the past identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and, although we believe we have remediated the material weakness, we cannot assure you that there will not be other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. Any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.Economic uncertainties or slowdowns may reduce demand for our solutions, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our cloud-based services. We believe that cloud-based services are at the beginning of their adoption cycle. Therefore, we cannot predict how quickly cloud-based services will be adopted by customers. Moreover, we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, particularly in Europe, but the longer the duration, the greater risks we face in operating our business. Economic uncertainties over the last few years have caused companies to reassess their spending for technology projects. We cannot assure you that current economic conditions, worsening economic conditions or prolonged poor economic conditions will not have a significant adverse impact on the demand for our solutions, and consequently, on our results of operations.Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large enterprises. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. Due to the nature, scope and complexity of the solutions that we provide, our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our platform. It may be challenging to find the correct sales approach to foster significant adoption of our platform. Our platform provides solutions to business problems in a distributed environment of customers and partners. The buyers of these solutions may differ in different organizations, with IT professionals being the buyer in some cases and a consultant to the business being the buyer in others. As a result, customers, especially large enterprises, often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our solutions, but also those of our competitors. New sales opportunities may require us to devote significant sales support to individual customers and, thus, to incur substantial costs. In addition, decisions to purchase our solutions are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our results could fall short of public expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our solutions are complex and may include multiple dependencies that may cause our customers difficulty in implementing our solutions successfully or prolong the implementation process, which could negatively impact our future revenue and financial results. Due to the scope and complexity of the solutions that we provide, our implementation cycle can be lengthy and unpredictable. Implementation of our solutions for new customers requires customization and integration with the customer and its partners’ existing computer systems, software programs and databases. This process can be complex, time-consuming and expensive for our customers and can result in delays in implementation and deployment of our solutions. As a result, some of our customers have had, and may in the future have, difficulty implementing our solutions successfully or otherwise achieving the expected benefits of our solutions. Additionally, while a customer may decide to purchase our solutions and services, the customer or its partners may require us to delay the implementation of our solutions due to their scheduling, resource or budgetary constraints.Delayed or ineffective implementation of our solutions may limit our future sales opportunities, reduce revenue and net income, cause customer dissatisfaction, harm our reputation or cause non-payment issues due to any of the following events: The withholding of cash payments or cancellation of contracts if we fail to meet our implementation commitments, the customers have financial difficulties or change strategy, or the functionality delivered is not acceptable to the customers or their partners. We are particularly susceptible to this with respect to arrangements where payments are scheduled to occur later in the engagement; The cancellation or scaling back of one or more of our larger implementation projects which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and future revenue; or An inability to recognize subscription and support revenue due to delays in the launch date of the customer’s access to our production environment. 12Table of ContentsCompetition from current competitors and new market entrants, as well as from internally developed technologies, could adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions and related services. We sell our platform in an extremely competitive environment characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We believe that the key competitive factors in our market include: security, scalability, speed of implementation, ability to enable users to maintain regulatory compliance, features and functionality, ability to meet customer service level requirements and price. If we are less successful at addressing one or more of these factors than our competitors, we may lose market share which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We compete with a wide range of established companies in a variety of different markets. In certain markets we compete with system integrators, such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard and Dell, cloud-based platform vendors, such as Salesforce.com and Microsoft Azure, and business-to-business integration and data exchange vendors, such as GXS and Sterling Commerce, a division of IBM, all of whom have substantially greater name recognition and resources than we do. Our competition often subscribe to or license other cloud-based platforms and third-party solutions to solve their customers’ specific business problems. Certain cloud-based platform vendors also offer development resources and consulting services that allow them to customize their platform to the customer’s requirements. We face other specialized competitors in our current vertical markets and may face new competitors as we expand into new vertical markets. These competitors may be more efficient and successful in penetrating the market for cloud-based services then we are. We also encounter competition from technologies developed by the in-house information technology departments of our customers and potential customers. If we fail to compete successfully, our operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If we fail to penetrate new vertical markets, our business will suffer. To date, we have concentrated our development efforts primarily in the automotive, healthcare and energy markets. While we anticipate that the substantial majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from these markets for the foreseeable future, we intend to penetrate additional vertical markets. Our success in our existing vertical markets depends on our deep understanding of these industries. In order to penetrate new vertical markets, we will need to develop a similar understanding of those new industries and the associated business challenges faced by participants in them. Developing this level of understanding may require substantial investments of time and resources and we may not be successful. If we fail to penetrate these new vertical markets, our revenue may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our financial condition could suffer. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers and our business will be harmed. While we are actively developing strategic partners to serve as a major aspect of our sales effort, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new customers and to sell additional solutions to our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and, if they do not, we will need to hire new sales personnel, who will require the same training and time to become effective. Moreover, we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. These individuals may also have difficulty implementing our go-to-market strategy on repeatable, platform-based sales. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in acquiring new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our revenue may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our financial condition could suffer.If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. We derived approximately 6%, 3% and 1% of our revenue for the years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, from sales of our solutions through our strategic partners, and we anticipate that strategic partners will be responsible for an increasing portion of our sales in the future, in particular for any new vertical markets we may pursue. In order to scale our channel program to support growth in our business, it is important that we help our partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our solutions. Accordingly, we have invested and continue to invest in enhancements to our platform to facilitate the sale and implementation of our platform by our partners. Moreover, we are investing significant time and resources into our strategic partners to educate them on the platform to accelerate their ability to become productive in selling our platform. Despite these investments and efforts, we may be unable to successfully expand and improve the effectiveness of our channel sales program. 13Table of ContentsWe expect that agreements with strategic partners will be generally non-exclusive and that strategic partners may enter into strategic relationships with our competitors or may be competitors themselves. Further, we expect that many strategic partners will have multiple strategic relationships and may not regard us as significant for their businesses. Strategic partners may terminate their respective relationships with us with limited or no notice and with limited or no penalty, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire technologies or services that compete with our solutions. Strategic partners may also impair our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships or sell additional business. If strategic partners do not effectively market and sell our solutions, if they choose to place greater emphasis on technologies of their own or those offered by our competitors, or if they fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business and sell our solutions may be adversely affected. Similarly, the loss of a substantial number of strategic partners, and our possible inability to replace them, the failure to recruit additional strategic partners, any reduction or delay in their sales of our solutions, or any conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in an emerging and evolving market which may lead to period to period variability in our revenue and make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects.We believe our platform is unique in the marketplace as it flexibly provides the framework to improve business processes involving a user's extended enterprise ranging from customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. However, the markets for our platform are in an early stage of development, and it is uncertain how rapidly these markets will develop. Even if they do develop, it is not certain the subscription software and solutions provided by our platform will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and acceptance. Because our platform has a significant number of applications across many industries, our ability to grow revenue will be dependent upon our ability to determine which industries are most likely to be ready to utilize our technologies to solve their business issues. If we do not select wisely, we may incur costs and lose the opportunities to formalize our position in the marketplace.If companies do not perceive or value the benefits of our solutions, or if companies are unwilling to accept our platform as an alternative to the traditional approach to solving business process problems in their extended enterprise, the market for our platform might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly affect our revenue and growth prospects.We provide service level commitments to our customers, and our failure to meet the stated service levels could significantly harm our financial results and our reputation. Our customer agreements provide that we maintain certain service level commitments to our customers relating primarily to functionality, network uptime and critical infrastructure availability. For example, our service level agreements generally require that our solutions are available up to 99.5% of the time. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments, we may be contractually obligated to provide customers with credits. Additionally, if we fail to meet our service level commitments a specified number of times within a given time frame or for a specified duration, our customers may terminate their agreement with us. As a result, a failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could cause us to issue credits to a large number of affected customers or result in the loss of customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that our customers will accept these credits or termination rights in lieu of other legal remedies that may be available to them, and, therefore, we could be liable for other related damages incurred by our customers. Our failure to meet our commitments could also result in substantial customer dissatisfaction or loss. If we fail to meet our service level commitments to our customers, the resulting issuance of credits, loss of customers or other potential liabilities could significantly and adversely impact our financial results. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of, or stop using, our solutions and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations enable the exchange of, and access to, sensitive information, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have security measures in place, if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, our reputation could be significantly damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur substantial liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our operating results. Because our platform is often used to collect and store personal information, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit sales of our solutions. 14Table of ContentsMany federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the U.S., these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), state breach notification laws and other state privacy and data security laws. Outside of the U.S., these privacy and data security requirements include rules and regulations promulgated under the European Union data protection directive. Virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still complex, evolving and uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our solutions. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. Our solutions are hosted at multiple data centers around the world. Any disruption of service at our facilities or our third-party hosting providers could interrupt or delay our customers’ access to our solutions, which could harm our operating results. The ability of our customers to access our solutions is critical to our business. We currently serve customers from data centers located in Chicago, Tokyo, Frankfurt and Shanghai and maintain a backup data recovery center in our Detroit headquarters. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to eliminate single points of failure in the primary data center located in Chicago and our data recovery center located in Detroit will be effective to prevent or minimize interruptions to our operations. Our facilities are vulnerable to interruption or damage from a number of sources, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: Extended power loss; Telecommunications failures from multiple telecommunication providers; Natural disaster or an act of terrorism; Software and hardware errors, or failures in our own systems or in other systems; Network environment disruptions such as computer viruses, hacking and similar problems in our own systems and in other systems; Theft and vandalism of equipment; and Actions or events caused by or related to third parties. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various business continuity efforts, including redundant infrastructure, 24x7x365 system activity monitoring, backup and recovery procedures, use of a secure off-site storage facility for backup media, separate test systems and change management and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all potential problems. Our data recovery center is equipped with physical space, power, storage and networking infrastructure and Internet connectivity to support the solutions we provide in the event of the interruption of services at our primary data center. Even with this data recovery center, however, our operations would be interrupted during the transition process should our primary data center experience a failure. Disruptions at our data centers could cause disruptions in our services and data loss or corruption. This could damage our reputation, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability or costs related to defending against claims or cause customers to terminate or elect not to renew their agreements, any of which could negatively impact our revenue. Century Link Inc., formerly known as Savvis, currently hosts the majority of our solutions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to receive reasonable pricing and terms from Century Link or our other hosting providers in the future. Failure to negotiate reasonable terms could result in increased costs, which would negatively impact our financial condition. If Century Link stops providing services or we fail to negotiate terms on an acceptable basis, we could be required to move our solutions to other third-party hosting providers, which would be a distraction to our business, could increase costs and could cause a disruption in our services.15Table of ContentsWe could be sued for contract claims, and such lawsuits, if successful, may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our platform performs significant volume of transactions in mission-critical systems for our customers. General errors, defects, inaccuracies or other performance problems in our solutions or inaccuracies in or loss of the data we provide to our customers could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which damages could prompt them to make claims for damages against us. We cannot assure you that the limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. We cannot assure you that this coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large contract claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage for any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large contract claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to manage our expected growth, our performance may suffer. Our business has grown rapidly, and if we are successful in executing our business strategy, this growth will continue as we expand our offerings and seek to penetrate new vertical markets. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other systems and resources to manage our operations, continue our research and development activities and increase our sales force. It is possible that our existing management, finance and development personnel, systems and facilities may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and solutions requires that we continue to develop more robust business processes and improve our systems and procedures in each of these areas and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and growth goals. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations, or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications such as our cloud-based solutions and reduce the demand for our platform. Changes in federal law or regulation could adversely impact our Physician Quality Reporting System offering. Revenue from our Physician Quality Reporting System, or PQRS, offering represented approximately 2%, 1% and 2% of our total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and 8%, 5% and 6% of our total revenue during the quarters ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. PQRS revenue is recognized as performed at the time of the annual submission to the government during our fourth quarter ending March 31. PQRS is a voluntary federal program that incentivizes certain quality care data reporting by healthcare professionals. As a federal program, a change in federal law or regulation could alter or eliminate PQRS, which, in turn, could adversely impact our revenue. Our platform must integrate with a variety of operating systems, software applications and hardware that are developed by others. If we are unable to devote the necessary resources to ensure that our solutions interoperate with such software and hardware, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and we may experience reduced demand for our offerings. Our platform must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software platforms, and we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our platform, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business. If we are unable to respond to these changes in a timely, cost-effective manner, our solutions may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted. In addition, an increasing number of individuals in organizations are utilizing devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and other handheld devices, to access the Internet and corporate resources and conduct business. The cost to make our platform broadly interoperable may be significant. If we cannot effectively make our platform available on these mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. We rely on third-party software that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our service that could lead to lost customers or harm to our reputation. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our solutions. This software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in the provisioning of 16Table of Contentsour service until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business. The loss of certain key employees and technical personnel or our inability to hire additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part upon the continued service of our key senior management and technical personnel. Such personnel are employed at-will and may leave Covisint at any time. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly-qualified technical, managerial and sales personnel. The market for professional services and software solutions personnel has historically been, and we expect that it will continue to be, intensely competitive. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. The loss of certain key employees or our inability to attract and retain other qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we continue to grow, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. and elsewhere involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing Internet-related products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. These risks have been amplified by an increase in the number of third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. Additionally, the defense or prosecution of claims could be time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention away from the execution of our business plan. We cannot be certain that our solutions and services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of alleged infringement or misappropriation could be asserted against us by third parties in the future. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claim. In addition to possible claims with respect to our solutions, some of our solutions contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties, and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement or misappropriation claims with respect to these third-party technologies. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from a claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected solution or service. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our products or services to others. Infringement claims asserted with or without merit against us may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with customers include contractual obligations to indemnify them against claims that our solutions infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may force us to do one or more of the following: Participate in or pay the costs of the defense of such litigation; Cease selling or using solutions or services that incorporate the challenged technology; Make substantial payments for costs or damages; Obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or Redesign those solutions or services to avoid infringement. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us or any obligation to indemnify our customers for such claims, such payments or costs 17Table of Contentscould have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial results. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our technology in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Moreover, such infringement claims with or without merit may harm our relationships with our existing customers and may deter future customers from subscribing to our solutions and related services on acceptable terms, if at all. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and efforts to protect them may be costly and may substantially harm our business. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. While we hold an issued patent and a pending patent application covering certain elements of our technology, this patent and patent application, and, more generally, existing patent laws, may not provide adequate protection for portions of the technology that are important to our business. In addition, our pending patent application may not result in an issued patent. We have largely relied on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as generally relying on confidentiality procedures and agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors, to control access to, and distribution of, technology, software, documentation and other confidential information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain, use or distribute our technology without authorization. If this were to occur, we could lose revenue as a result of competition from products infringing or misappropriating our technology and intellectual property and we may be required to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights and market position. U.S. patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws offer us only limited protection and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent. Accordingly, defense of our trademarks and proprietary technology may become an increasingly important issue as we continue to expand our operations and solution development into countries that provide a lower level of intellectual property protection than the U.S. Policing unauthorized use of our trademarks and technology is difficult and the steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the trademarks or technology on which we rely. If competitors are able to use our trademarks or technology without recourse, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We may elect to initiate litigation in the future to enforce or protect our proprietary rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation may not be ultimately successful and could result in substantial costs to us, the reduction or loss in intellectual property protection for our technology, the diversion of our management’s attention and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Confidentiality arrangements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, business operations and business plans. In order to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we rely in significant part on confidentiality arrangements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors, advisers and customers. These arrangements, some of which were acquired through acquisitions, may not be effective to prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our solutions by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or contractors, or we, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers or other parties. We could in the future be subject to claims that our employees or contractors, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or other parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our solutions, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of these parties. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop, market and support potential solutions or enhancements, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 18Table of ContentsOur use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and solutions or protect our intellectual property and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technology licensed from others by us and that we use to make our solutions available currently incorporates “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into our solutions in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under various open source licenses. Terms of many source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to offer our solutions. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our services, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our affected solutions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, if we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software or source code of our proprietary software and that we license such modifications, alterations or source code under the terms of the particular open source license. If a third party were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be: Required to defend against such allegations; Subject to significant damages; Enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software; Required to comply with the conditions described above; or Required to discontinue our use of such open source software or the sale of our affected solutions in the event we could not maintain compliance with such licenses. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions while forcing us to incur significant legal expenses. Additionally, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source software does not come with warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. From time to time, parties have asserted claims against companies that use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes their intellectual property rights. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights with respect to what we believe to be open source software. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue using such software or offering certain of our solutions and services or to discontinue the use of such software or the sale of our affected solutions and services in the event we could not obtain such licenses, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop or acquire solution enhancements and new solutions, and we may not be able to timely develop or acquire new and enhanced solutions to satisfy changes in demand. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and market solution enhancements and new solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in technology and customer preferences. We may not be able to develop and market new or enhanced solutions in a timely or cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce solutions that satisfy customer requirements. Our solutions also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly anticipate technological changes. While we are continually searching for acquisition opportunities, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in identifying, acquiring and developing solutions and technology. If any potential acquisition opportunities are identified, we cannot assure you that we will consummate and successfully integrate any such acquisitions and we cannot assure you as to the timing or effect on our business of any such acquisitions. Our failure to develop technological improvements or to adapt our solutions to technological change may, over time, have a material adverse effect on our business. We may expand our business by acquiring or investing in other products, services, technologies or businesses, which may divert our management’s attention, result in dilution to our shareholders and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. We may in the future acquire complementary products, services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our portfolio of solutions or our ability to provide our solutions in foreign jurisdictions. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition, investment or new business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the acquired 19Table of Contentscompany’s technology is not easily adapted to be compatible with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or other concerns. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire. For one or more of those transactions, we may: Issue additional equity securities that would dilute our shareholders; Use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; Incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay or that may place burdensome restrictions on our operations; Incur significant charges or substantial liabilities; or Become subject to adverse tax consequences, or substantial depreciation, deferred compensation or other acquisition-related accounting charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. We may be exposed to liabilities if it is determined that we have not complied with Section 409A of the Code. We have attempted to structure the compensation arrangements with our employees so that they either comply with, or are exempt from, Section 409A of the Code, which sets forth the rules governing deferred compensation arrangements, including by amending certain option award agreements. If it is determined that these arrangements are neither compliant with, nor exempt from, Section 409A of the Code, we may be subject to liabilities and costs, including penalties for failing to report deferred compensation arrangements under Section 409A of the Code and to withhold taxes payable by our employees, and we may be required to pay the amount of taxes we should have withheld and related interest. We have also committed to reimburse those of our employees who have made certain amendments to their compensation arrangements for certain personal negative tax implications if the amended compensation arrangements are determined to be neither compliant with, nor exempt from, Section 409A of the Code. Any amounts so payable by us could adversely impact our financial condition. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial results and could increase the volatility of those results. Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to income taxes in both the United States and several foreign jurisdictions. In the event we generate net income in certain jurisdictions but incur net losses in other jurisdictions, we generally cannot offset the income from one jurisdiction with the loss from another, which could increase our effective tax rate. Furthermore, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that are likely to result from the examination of our tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of such examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We recognize reserves for uncertain tax positions through tax expense for estimated exposures related to our current and historical tax positions. We evaluate the need for reserves for uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and any change in the amount is recorded in our results of operations, as appropriate. It could take several years to resolve certain of these reserves for uncertain tax positions. Additionally, one of the components that we evaluate in establishing the provision for income taxes is the realization of our deferred tax assets. We must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Changes in estimates of projected future operating results or in assumptions regarding our ability to generate future taxable income could result in increases to our total valuation allowance and tax expense that would reduce net income. We earn a portion of our income, and accumulate a portion of cash flow, in foreign jurisdictions. Any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in a higher effective tax rate and larger incremental cash tax payments. In addition, there have been proposals to amend U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact the manner in which U.S. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation will pass, if enacted, such legislation could have an adverse impact on our U.S. tax expense and cash flows. 20Table of ContentsWe are exposed to exchange rate risks on foreign currencies and to other international risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 14%, 15% and 14% of our total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, was derived from foreign operations, and we expect that foreign operations will continue to generate a significant percentage of our total revenue. We currently have foreign sales denominated in the local currency of approximately fifteen foreign countries, and our solutions and services may be priced in the currency of the country in which they are sold. Changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies or exchange controls may adversely affect our results of operations. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. The international business environment is also subject to other risks, including the need to comply with foreign and U.S. laws and the greater difficulty of managing business operations overseas. In addition, our foreign operations are affected by general economic conditions in the international markets in which we do business. A worsening of economic conditions in these markets could cause customers to delay or forego decisions to acquire or renew subscriptions or to reduce their requirements for services. We face many risks associated with our plans to expand our international presence, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently operate internationally and intend to expand into additional international markets. In some international markets, customer preferences and buying behaviors may be different, and we may use business or pricing models that are different from our traditional subscription model to provide our platform to customers in those markets or we may be unsuccessful in implementing the appropriate business model. Our revenue from new foreign markets may not exceed the costs of establishing, marketing and maintaining our offerings in those markets. In addition, the current instability in the euro zone could have many adverse consequences on our international operations, including sovereign default, liquidity and capital pressures on euro zone financial institutions, reducing the availability of credit and increasing the risk of financial sector failures and the risk of one or more euro zone member states leaving the euro, resulting in the possibility of capital and exchange controls and uncertainty about the impact of contracts and currency exchange rates. In addition, conducting our operations in a new international market may subject us to new risks. These risks include: Localization of our solutions, including the addition of the local language and adaptation to new local practices; Strong local competitors; The cost and burden of complying with, lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, local legal and regulatory requirements; Fluctuations in local currency exchange rates or restrictions on local currency; Potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of transfer pricing, value-added or other tax systems, double taxation and restrictions and/or taxes on the repatriation of earnings; Hiring and training a local sales force; Development of a local marketing strategy; Dependence on third parties, including commercial partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; Political, social and economic instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and Reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in new international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our solutions contain encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. export regulations, including restrictions on future export activities, which could harm our business and operating results. Regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies needed to improve our solutions and may also limit or reduce the demand for our solutions outside of the U.S. 21Table of ContentsOur operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales, services or other related taxes for our solutions in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We do not believe that we are required to collect sales, use, services or other similar taxes from our customers in certain jurisdictions. However, one or more countries or states may seek to impose sales, use, services, or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales. A successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and decrease our ability to compete for future sales. Each country and each state has different rules and regulations governing such taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe such taxes apply in a particular jurisdiction, we comply with their rules and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such taxes or related interest and penalties for past sales in jurisdictions where we presently believe such taxes are not due. We reserve estimated amounts with respect to such taxes on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that we have made sufficient reserves to cover such tax liabilities or such taxes. Providers of goods or services are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales and similar taxes. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our solutions, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to being required to collect sales or similar taxes in respect of our solutions going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our customer contracts generally provide that our customers must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. Nevertheless, customers may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes or we may determine that it would not be feasible to seek reimbursement. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties and if our customers do not reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our solutions going forward may effectively increase the cost of such solutions to our customers. Many states are also pursuing legislative expansion of the scope of goods and services that are subject to sales and similar taxes as well as the circumstances in which a vendor of goods and services must collect such taxes. Furthermore, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would provide states with additional authority to impose such taxes. The tax laws of foreign jurisdictions may also change. Accordingly, it is possible that either federal or state legislative changes or foreign tax law changes may require us to collect additional sales and similar taxes from our customers in the future. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could harm our operating results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by tax or other regulatory authorities may harm our operating results or the way we conduct our business.If Compuware’s distribution of our common stock in the Tax-Free Distribution does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Compuware and its shareholders could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Compuware for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement.Although Compuware has no obligation to complete the Tax-Free Distribution, on January 25, 2013, Compuware announced that it plans to distribute its shares of our common stock within one year following the offering of our common stock to the public, which was completed in October 2013. Compuware has recently reaffirmed its intention to complete the Tax-Free Distribution within one year of the offering. In August 2013, Compuware submitted to the IRS a request for a private letter ruling, substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Tax-Free Distribution will qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. Compuware received this private letter ruling with respect to the qualification as a tax-free transaction in March 2014.Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and 80% of each class of nonvoting capital stock is required in order for Compuware to effect the Tax-Free Distribution. In order to maintain the 80% or greater ownership of us necessary for a Tax-Free Distribution in light of the exercisable options under the LTIP, on May 8, 2014, we amended each of our outstanding option agreements to purchase our common stock exercisable through the end of December 2014 to provide the option holder with a tandem stock appreciation right (“SAR”). In lieu of the exercise of the option, the option holder can exercise the SAR, which will allow the option holder to realize the value of his or her exercisable options (the fair market value of our common stock less the option strike price) without placing additional shares into the market through the exercise of the option. The issuance of additional shares of our stock would dilute Compuware’s percentage ownership, subject to any offset due to additional acquisitions of our stock by Compuware pursuant to our master separation agreement with Compuware. The exercise price of the SAR will 22Table of Contentsbe the same as the exercise price of the outstanding option. In connection with the exercise of any SARs, Compuware will acquire additional shares of our common stock at fair market value under a Purchase Agreement entered into on May 7, 2014, in order to provide us with the funds necessary to pay for the option holder’s exercise of the SAR rights.In May 2014, Compuware submitted to the IRS a request for a supplemental private letter ruling confirming the tax-free status of the Tax-Free Distribution, taking into account (i) the award and potential exercise of SARs and Compuware’s expected acquisition of additional shares of our common stock under the Purchase Agreement with Compuware, our master separation agreement with Compuware, or open-market purchases, and (ii) Compuware’s possible retention of a minor portion of our common stock for sale following the Tax-Free Distribution. Compuware expects to receive that supplemental private letter ruling before the Tax-Free Distribution.The private letter rulings and the tax opinion that Compuware expects to receive from its counsel will rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter rulings nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the private letter rulings will not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution will qualify as a tax-free transaction. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and opinion, the IRS could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, among other reasons, it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the requests for the private letter rulings or the private letter rulings themselves are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter rulings. If the Tax-Free Distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction, in general, Compuware would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and Compuware shareholders who receive shares of our common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Even if the Tax-Free Distribution would otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such distribution may be taxable to Compuware if Section 355(d) of the Code or Section 355(e) of the Code applies to the distribution. Section 355(d) of the Code may apply to the distribution if any person purchases 50% or more of Compuware’s stock, by vote or value, during the five-year period ending on the date of any distribution of our shares by Compuware to its shareholders. Section 355(e) of the Code will apply to the distribution if 50% or more of our stock or of Compuware’s stock, by vote or value, is acquired by one or more persons, other than the holders of Compuware stock who received our stock in the distribution, acting pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions that includes the distribution. Any shares of our stock or of the stock of Compuware acquired directly or indirectly within two years before or after the Tax-Free Distribution generally are presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption can be rebutted.Once Compuware accomplishes the Tax-Free Distribution, we have agreed in our tax sharing agreement with Compuware not to take certain actions, such as stock issuances, redemptions, certain stock repurchases, amending our articles of incorporation or other organizational documents to affect the voting rights of our stock, mergers or consolidations, liquidations or partial liquidations, asset sales or contributions, or other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Tax-Free Distribution within the two years following the Tax-Free Distribution without first obtaining the opinion of tax counsel or a private letter ruling to the effect that such actions will not result in the Tax-Free Distribution failing to qualify as a tax-free transaction. In addition, we generally would be responsible for, among other things, certain taxes imposed under the consolidated return regulations and any taxes (including taxes that could be imposed on Compuware under Section 355(e) of the Code) resulting from the failure of the Tax-Free Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction to the extent such taxes are attributable to, or result from, certain actions or failures to act by us or certain transactions involving us following the Tax-Free Distribution. We also generally would be responsible for 50% of such taxes to the extent such taxes are not attributable to, or do not result from, certain actions or failures to act by either us or Compuware. We would, however, have no responsibility for taxes attributable to the failure of the Tax-Free Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction due to a sale or change in ownership of Compuware. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. Substantial uncertainty exists on the scope of Section 355(e) of the Code, and we may have undertaken, may contemplate undertaking or may otherwise undertake in the future transactions that may cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply to the distribution notwithstanding our desire or intent to avoid application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Accordingly, we cannot provide you any assurance that we will not have tax-related obligations related to the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Tax-Free Distribution.Acts of terrorism, acts of war and other unforeseen events may cause damage or disruption to us or our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market 23Table of Contentsdisruptions and job losses. Such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to such threats could affect the business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Compuware As long as Compuware controls us, your ability to influence matters requiring shareholder approval will be limited. Compuware owns 30,003,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 80.03% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock. For so long as Compuware or its successor-in-interest beneficially owns shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding common stock, Compuware or such successor will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Currently, two members of our board of directors, Robert C. Paul and William O. Grabe, are members of the Compuware board of directors, and Mr. Paul is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Compuware.Our historical financial information as a business segment of Compuware may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. Our historical financial information may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our financial statements include a charge for certain corporate functions historically provided by Compuware, including tax, accounting, treasury, legal and human resources services. The historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future. We have not made pro forma adjustments to reflect many significant changes that will occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a public company, including changes in our employee base, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company. If Compuware experiences a change in control, our current plans and strategies could be subject to change. As long as Compuware controls us, it will have significant influence over our plans and strategies, including strategies relating to marketing and growth. In the past, Compuware has received offers and inquiries regarding the possible acquisition of the outstanding shares of Compuware stock. Although none of these offers have been accepted, it is impossible to predict whether a credible, or unsolicited, offer to acquire Compuware will be made in the future, and whether a transaction would be consummated with respect to such an offer. In the event Compuware experiences a change in control, a new Compuware owner may attempt to cause us to revise or change the plans and strategies, as well as the agreements between Compuware and us, described in this prospectus. A new owner may also have different plans with respect to the contemplated distribution of our common stock to Compuware shareholders, including not effecting such a distribution.We are a smaller company relative to Compuware, which could result in increased costs because of a decrease in our purchasing power. We may also experience decreased revenue due to difficulty maintaining existing customer relationships and obtaining new customers. Prior to our IPO, we were able to take advantage of Compuware’s size and purchasing power in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit and other professional services. We are a smaller company than Compuware, and we cannot assure you that we will have access to financial and other resources comparable to those available to us prior to the IPO. As a stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain office space, goods, technology and services at prices or on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to this offering, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain our current relationships with existing customers, and we may have difficulty attracting new customers. In order to preserve the ability for Compuware to distribute its shares of our common stock on a tax-free basis, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital or to effectuate acquisitions which could hurt our ability to grow. Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and 80% of each class of nonvoting capital stock is required in order for Compuware to effect the Tax-Free Distribution of Covisint or certain other tax-free transactions. We have agreed that, so long as the Tax-Free Distribution could, in the reasonable discretion of Compuware, be effectuated, we will not knowingly take or fail to take, or permit any Covisint affiliate to knowingly take or fail to take, any action that could reasonably be expected to preclude Compuware’s ability to effectuate the Tax-Free Distribution. As a result, we may be precluded from pursuing certain growth initiatives, including the creation of a class of non-voting stock, unless Compuware were to purchase at least 80% of such class of shares of any subsequent equity offering. 24Table of ContentsThe Tax-Free Distribution may not occur. Although Compuware has announced its intention and recently reconfirmed such intention to consummate a Tax-Free Distribution within one year following the offering, and has now received a private letter ruling from the IRS in connection with such announced Tax-Free Distribution, it may abandon or change the structure of the Tax-Free Distribution if it determines, in its sole discretion, that the Tax-Free Distribution is not in the best interest of Compuware or its shareholders. Such determination may take into account, without limitation, the potential impact on the Tax-Free Distribution of a change in control of Compuware and Compuware’s receipt of the supplemental private letter ruling. Although we have entered into a tax sharing agreement with Compuware under which our tax liabilities effectively will be determined as if we were not part of any consolidated, combined or unitary tax group of Compuware and/or its subsidiaries, we nonetheless could be held liable for the tax liabilities of other members of these groups. Until December 31, 2012, the Covisint business operated as a division of Compuware and, as a division, our operations were included in the tax returns filed by Compuware’s consolidated group, or Consolidated Group, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as in certain consolidated, combined or unitary groups that include Compuware and/or certain of its subsidiaries, or Combined Group, for taxes other than U.S. federal income taxes. Effective January 1, 2013, Compuware made a contribution to us of substantially all of the assets and liabilities relating to our business and, as a member of the Consolidated Group, our operations have been included in the Consolidated Group since that date for tax periods or portions thereof commencing after such contribution in which Compuware owned at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our outstanding stock. Effective that date, we also entered into a tax sharing agreement with Compuware. Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we and Compuware generally will make payments to each other such that, with respect to tax returns for any taxable period in which we or any of our subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Group or any Combined Group, the amount of taxes to be paid by us will be determined, subject to certain adjustments, as if we and each of our subsidiaries included in such Consolidated Group or Combined Group filed our own consolidated, combined, unitary or separate tax return. The tax sharing agreement also provides for the allocation between Compuware and Covisint of compensation-related deductions attributable to employee stock options and restricted stock granted to employees of the Covisint business. Compuware may be required to make payments to us in the event that Compuware realizes the tax benefits of such compensation-related deductions. We intend to be included in the Consolidated Group until the Tax Free Distribution. In the event that we were not included in the Consolidated Group , we would no longer join in the filing of the Consolidated Group’s federal income tax returns and would file federal income tax returns separate from the Consolidated Group following the deconsolidation. Such a deconsolidation could also negatively impact Compuware’s ability to distribute its shares of our common stock to its shareholders in a tax-free transaction. Each member of a consolidated group during any part of a consolidated return year is severally liable for tax on the consolidated return of such year and for any subsequently determined deficiency thereon. Similarly, in some jurisdictions, each member of a consolidated, combined or unitary group for state, local or foreign tax purposes is jointly and severally liable for the state, local or foreign tax liability of each other member of the consolidated, combined or unitary group. Accordingly, for any period in which we are included in the Consolidated Group or any Combined Group, we could be liable in the event that any income or other tax liability was incurred, but not discharged, by any other member of any such group even if we are not then currently a member of such Consolidated Group or Combined Group. Some of our directors and executive officers own Compuware common stock, restricted shares of Compuware common stock or options to acquire Compuware common stock and hold positions with Compuware, which could cause conflicts of interest that result in our not acting on opportunities we otherwise may have. Some of our directors and executive officers own Compuware common stock, restricted shares of Compuware stock or options to purchase Compuware common stock. In addition, two members of our board of directors, Messrs. Paul and Grabe, are currently members of the Compuware board of directors. Mr. Paul is also the President and Chief Executive Officer of Compuware. Ownership of Compuware common stock, restricted shares of Compuware common stock and options to purchase Compuware common stock by our directors and officers after the IPO and the presence of executive officers or directors of Compuware on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and Compuware that could have different implications for Compuware than they do for us. Provisions of our articles of incorporation address corporate opportunities that are presented to our directors or officers that are also directors or officers of Compuware. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our articles of incorporation will adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor or that we will be able to take advantage of corporate opportunities presented to individuals who are officers or directors of both us and Compuware. As a result, we may be precluded from pursuing certain growth initiatives. Our inability to resolve favorably any disputes that arise between us and Compuware with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may adversely affect our operating results. 25Table of ContentsDisputes may arise between Compuware and us in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationships, including: Labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Compuware; Employee retention and recruiting; Business combinations involving us; Our ability to engage in activities with certain channel, technology or other marketing partners; Sales or dispositions by Compuware of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; The nature, quality and pricing of services Compuware has agreed to provide us; and Business opportunities that may be attractive to both Compuware and us. We may not be able to resolve potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we have entered into with Compuware may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Compuware, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements if required on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, we may rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. Compuware owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock and we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, certain exemptions under the NASDAQ standards free us from the obligation to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:That a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;That we have a compensation committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors; andThat we have a nominating committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors. A majority of our board of directors, and our entire Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, are composed of independent directors in compliance with the requirements of NASDAQ. However, we are not required to maintain this composition of our board and its committees and, in the event we choose to rely on available “controlled company” exemptions, you will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Compuware, which could result in a decrease in our income. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Compuware’s liabilities. Under our master separation agreement with Compuware, Compuware will indemnify us for claims and losses relating to Compuware’s liabilities and not related to our business. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Compuware. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, and as such, we will take advantage of certain modified disclosure requirements. As a public company, we will be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. However, we are an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of the rules under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We intend to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer 26Table of Contentsan emerging growth company. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of (i) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities, and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” as defined in the Exchange Act. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-JOBS Act.” We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock. The share price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could decline.Prior to the offering, there had been no public market for our common stock. An active public market for these shares may never develop or be sustained, which could affect your ability to sell your shares and could depress the market price of your shares. The initial public offering price for the shares of our common stock was determined by negotiations between us and the representatives of the underwriters and has not been indicative of prices that have since prevailed in the trading market. The market price of our common stock, has been, and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors described in this report, and others beyond our control, including:Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our condition and operating results;Changes in projected operational and financial results;Addition or loss of significant customers;Changes in laws or regulations applicable to our business;Actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;Announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors;Additions or departures of key personnel;Issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;The expiration of contractual lock-up agreements; andGeneral economic, legal, regulatory and market conditions unrelated to our performance.In addition, if the general stock market experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business.We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. If we do not pay cash dividends, you could receive a return on your investment in our common stock only if the market price of our common stock has increased when you sell your shares. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. Compuware currently owns 30,003,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 80.03% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Compuware has no continuing contractual obligation to retain these shares, and has 27Table of Contentsannounced its intention to distribute such shares in the Tax-Free Distribution, within twelve months after the IPO. In addition, Compuware has the right to cause us to register the sale of its shares of our common stock under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares, other than shares owned by our affiliates, becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration statement. Moreover, as a result of certain option agreements with participants in the Company’s 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan, which must be exercised in calendar years 2014, 2015, and 2016, we anticipate that up to approximately 3.2 million shares of Covisint common stock may be acquired and potentially sold in the public market on or before December 31, 2016.Our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain provisions of Michigan law may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Michigan law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions inhibits a non-negotiated acquisition, merger or other business combination involving our company, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.