Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors should be reviewed carefully, in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Our business faces a variety of risks. We describe below what we believe are currently the material risks and uncertainties we face, but they are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: (i) risks relating to our business, (ii) risks relating to the Separation and (iii) risks relating to our common stock. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business Risks Associated with Regulatory Clearances and Approvals If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory clearances or approvals in the U.S. and the EU for our products, or are unable to maintain such clearances or approvals for our products, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products would suffer. We currently do not have regulatory approval to market any of our products. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other federal and state governmental authorities in the U.S., as well as foreign governmental authorities. In the U.S., the FDA permits commercial distribution of new medical products only after approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA, or biologics license application, or BLA, unless the product is specifically exempt from those requirements. A PMA or BLA must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use. There are similar approval processes in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions. Our failure to receive or obtain such clearances or approvals on a timely basis or at all would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The FDA has informed us that our HART-Trachea product will be viewed by the FDA as a combination product comprised of a biologic (cells) and medical device component. We cannot be sure how the FDA will regulate our products. The FDA may require us to obtain marketing clearance and approval from multiple FDA centers. The review of combination products is often more complex and more time consuming than the review of products under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. The FDA has informed us that the HART-Trachea will be regulated by the FDA as a combination product. For a combination product, the Office of Combination Products, or OCP, within FDA can determine which center or centers within the FDA will review the product and under what legal authority the product will be reviewed. Generally, the center within the FDA that has the primary role in regulating a combination product is determined based on the primary mode of action of the product. Generally, if the primary mode of action is as a device, then the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, takes the lead. Generally, if the primary mode of action is cellular, then the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research takes the lead. On August 29th 2013 we received written confirmation from FDA’s Office of Combination Products that FDA intends to regulate the HART-Trachea as a combination product under the primary jurisdiction of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, or CBER. We further understand that CBER may choose to consult or collaborate with CDRH with respect to the characteristics of the synthetic scaffold component of the HART-Trachea based on CBER’s determination of need for such assistance. Although we have received this written response from the FDA, the process of obtaining FDA marketing approval is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and we cannot be sure that our products will be cleared or approved in a timely fashion, or at all. In addition, the review of combination products is often more complex and can be more time consuming than the review of a product under the jurisdiction of only one center within the FDA. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS We cannot be sure that the FDA will not select to have our combination products reviewed and regulated by only one FDA center and/or different legal authority, in which case the path to regulatory approval would be different and could be more lengthy and costly. If the FDA does not approve or clear our products in a timely fashion, or at all, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. In the EU, our products may be viewed as advanced therapy medicinal products, which could delay approvals and clearances and increase costs of obtaining such approvals and clearances. In the EU, we believe that the HART-trachea may be regulated as an advanced therapy medicinal product, or ATMP, or as combined advanced therapy medicinal products. In such circumstances, it would be necessary to seek a marketing authorization for these products granted by the European Commission before being marketed in the EU. The regulatory procedures leading to marketing approval of our products vary among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Compliance with the FDA requirements does not ensure clearance or approval in other jurisdictions, and the ability to legally market our products in any one foreign country does not ensure clearance, or approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions. The foreign regulatory process leading to the marketing of the products may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to comply with foreign regulations and market products may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign approval or clearance on a timely basis, if at all. Risks Associated with Clinical Trials Clinical trials necessary to support a BLA license, a PMA application, a marketing authorization, or a CE mark for our products will be expensive and will require the enrollment of sufficient patients to adequately demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the product’s target populations. Suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays or failures in our clinical trials will prevent us from commercializing any products and will adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In the U.S., initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to support either BLA licenses or PMA applications, will be time consuming, expensive and the outcome uncertain. Moreover, the FDA may not agree that clinical trial results support an application for the indications sought in the application for the product. In other jurisdictions such as the EU, the conduct of extensive and expensive clinical trials may also be required in order to demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of our products, depending on each specific product, the claims being studied, and the target condition or disease. The outcome of these clinical trials, which can be expensive and are heavily regulated, will also be uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Conducting successful clinical trials will require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients to support each trial’s claims, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomfort and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites and ability to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products, or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomfort. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products. In addition, patients participating in clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to investigational products. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Further, the FDA and 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS foreign regulatory authorities may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Although FDA regulations allow submission of data from clinical trials outside the U.S., there can be no assurance that such data will be accepted or that the FDA will not apply closer scrutiny to such data. Increased costs and delays necessary to generate appropriate data, or failures in clinical trials could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In the U.S., clinical studies for the company's products may be reviewed either under the Investigational Device Exemptions, or IDE pathway (for medical devices) or through the Investigational New Drug, or IND, pathway for biologics or combination products. The first regenerated trachea transplant approved in the U.S. using the HART-Trachea was approved under the IND pathway through CBER. Future FDA review under the IDE, IND, or both pathways, depending on the products, proposed study design, and study populations, is possible. In the EU, if the regulatory classification of our products is rejected by the ethics committee or competent authority reviewing our request for a positive opinion, we may be required to prepare a new study protocol reflecting a different classification. This process would be costly and time consuming. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products. We do not have the ability to independently conduct our preclinical and clinical trials for our products and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to seek or obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all. Our business, operating results and prospects may also be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the FDA, foreign competent authorities or notified bodies will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Although we have obtained some positive results from the use of our scaffolds and bioreactors for trachea transplants performed to date, we may not see positive results when the bioreactors, or our scaffolds or other technologies undergo clinical testing in humans in the future. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and pre-clinical studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product and may delay development of others. Also, patients receiving transplants using our products may experience significant adverse events following the transplants, including serious health complications or death, which may or may not be related to our products, and any such adverse events may cause the delay or termination of our clinical trials. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product’s profile. In addition, our current clinical experience and clinical trial for trachea transplant involves a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results may not be indicative of future results. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risk Associated with Product Marketing Even if our products are cleared or approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval in the U.S. or the EU, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities or notified bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMPs, for our medical products, and International Standards Organization, or ISO, regulations for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. Manufacturing may also be subject to controls by the FDA for parts of the system or combination products that the FDA may find are controlled by the biologics regulations. Equivalent regulatory obligations apply in foreign jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States, the European Medicines Agency and notified bodies, enforce the QSR, GMP and other applicable regulations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions through periodic inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory authorities or notified bodies in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • withdrawing BLA approvals or PMAs that have already been granted; • withdrawal of the marketing authorization granted by the European Commission or delay in obtaining such marketing authorization; • withdrawal of the CE Certificates of Conformity granted by the notified body or delay in obtaining these certificates; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; and • criminal prosecution. Postmarket enforcement actions can generate adverse commercial consequences. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In addition, we may be required to conduct costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or effectiveness of our products, and we must comply with medical products reporting requirements, including the reporting of adverse events and malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Extensive governmental regulations that affect our business are subject to change, and we could be subject to penalties and could be precluded from marketing our products and technologies if we fail to comply with new regulations and requirements. As a manufacturer and marketer of biotechnology products, we are subject to extensive regulation that is subject to change. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, which may have far-reaching consequences for most healthcare companies, including biotechnology companies. The PPACA could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, laboratory tests, drugs and devices. These structural changes, as well as those relating to proposals that may be made in the future to change the health care system, could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, as well as implementation of measures to limit or eliminate payments for some medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of medical products to government control. Government and other third-party payers increasingly attempt to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of payments of newly approved health care products. In some cases, they may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for disease indications other than those for which the regulatory authorities have granted marketing approval. Governments may adopt future legislative proposals and federal, state, foreign or private payers for healthcare goods and services may take action to limit their payments for goods and services. In the EU, on September 26, 2012, the European Commission proposed a revision of the legislation currently governing medical devices. If adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in their present form, these proposals, which may apply from 2015 or 2016, will impose stricter requirements on medical device manufacturers. Moreover, the supervising competences of the competent authorities of the EU Member States and the notified bodies will be strengthened. The regulation of advanced therapy medicinal products is also in continued development in the EU, with the European Medicines Agency publishing new clinical or safety guidelines concerning advanced therapy medicinal products on a regular basis. Any of these regulatory changes and events could limit our ability to form collaborations and our ability to commercialize our products, and if we fail to comply with any such new or modified regulations and requirements it could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. If we fail to complete the required IRS forms for exemptions, make timely semi-monthly payments of collected excise taxes, or submit quarterly reports as required by the Medical Device Excise Tax, we may be subject to penalties, such as Section 6656 penalties for any failure to make timely deposits. Section 4191 of the Internal Revenue Code, enacted by Section 1405 of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Public Law 111-152 (124 Stat. 1029 (2010)), in conjunction with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148 (124 Stat. 119 (2010)), imposed as of January 1, 2013, an excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices. The excise tax imposed by Section 4191 is 2.3% of the price for which a taxable medical device is sold within the U.S. The excise tax will apply to future sales of any company medical device listed with the FDA under Section 510(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and 21 C.F.R. Part 807, unless the device falls within an exemption from the tax, such as the exemption governing direct retail sale of devices to consumers or for foreign sales of these devices. We will need to assess to what extent this excise tax may impact the sales price and distribution agreements under which any of our products are sold in the U.S. We also expect general and administrative expense to increase due to the medical device excise tax. We will need to submit IRS forms applicable to relevant exemptions, make semi-monthly payments of any collected excise taxes, and make 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS timely (quarterly) reports to the IRS regarding the excise tax. To the extent we do not comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Excise Tax we may be subject to penalties. Financial and Operating Risks We have generated insignificant revenue to date and have a history of losses since inception. We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have generated insignificant revenues to date and we have generated no revenues from sale of the HART-Trachea. From February 24, 2009, our business’s inception, through December 31, 2013, we have incurred losses of approximately $21.2 million. We expect to continue to experience losses in the foreseeable future due to our limited anticipated revenues and significant anticipated expenses. We do not anticipate that we will achieve meaningful revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect that we will continue to incur significant operating expenses as we continue to focus on additional research and development, preclinical testing, clinical testing and regulatory review and/or approvals of our products and technologies. As a result, we cannot predict when, if ever, we might achieve profitability and cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability, if achieved. Our products are in an early stage of development. If we are unable to develop or market any of our products, our financial condition will be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We are in the early stage of product development. One must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. Our products require additional research and development, preclinical testing, clinical testing and regulatory review and/or approvals or clearances before marketing. In addition, we may not succeed in developing new products as an alternative to our existing portfolio of products. If we fail to successfully develop and commercialize our products, including our HART-Trachea, our financial condition may be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We have a limited operating history and it is difficult to predict our future growth and operating results. We have a limited operating history and limited operations and assets. Accordingly, you should consider our prospects in light of the costs, uncertainties, delays and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stage of development. As a development stage company, our development timelines have been and may continue to be subject to delay that could negatively affect our cash flow and our ability to develop or bring products to market, if at all. Our estimates of patient population are based on published data and analysis of external databases by third parties and are subject to uncertainty and possible future revision as they often require inference or extrapolations from one country to another or one patient condition to another. Our prospects must be considered in light of inherent risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by all early stage companies, particularly companies in new and evolving markets, such as regenerative medicine and organ transplant. These risks include, but are not limited to, unforeseen capital requirements, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, failure to gain market acceptance and competition from foreseen and unforeseen sources. Our operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding. Substantial time, financial and other resources will be required to complete ongoing development and clinical testing of our products. Regulatory efforts and collaborative arrangements will also be necessary for our products that are currently under development and testing in order for them to be marketed. Our revenues from operations and cash may not be sufficient over the next several years for commercialization of all of the technologies and products we are currently developing. Consequently, we may seek strategic partners for various phases of development, marketing and commercialization of products employing our technologies. Further, we cannot assure you as to the sufficiency of our resources or the time required to complete any ongoing development and clinical testing, since the extent to which we conduct such testing is dependent on resource allocation decisions that we make from time to time based on numerous financial, scientific, clinical, regulatory and operational conditions. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition to development and other costs, we expect to incur capital expenditures from time to time. These capital expenditures will be influenced by our regulatory compliance efforts, our success, if any, at developing collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, our needs for additional facilities and capital equipment and the growth, if any, of our business in general. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, other financing mechanisms, strategic collaborations and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. Additional equity financing could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Debt financing, if available, could result in agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or paying dividends. Other financing mechanisms may involve selling intellectual property rights, payment of royalties or participation in our revenue or cash flow. In addition, in order to raise additional funds through strategic collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or products. If we cannot raise funds or engage strategic partners on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to continue our research and development activities, develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. If we fail to retain key personnel, we may not be able to compete effectively, which would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel and collaborators. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time upon short notice. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, David Green, our Chief Financial Officer, Thomas McNaughton, and our other key scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as the ability to hire and retain the services of a Chief Medical Officer, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. If our collaborators do not devote sufficient time and resources to successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to advance our products in a timely manner or at all. We are currently collaborating with multiple academic researchers and clinicians at a variety of research and clinical institutions. Our success depends in part on the performance of our collaborators. Some collaborators may not be successful in their research and clinical trials or may not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in a manner satisfactory to us. Typically, we cannot control the amount of resources or time our collaborators may devote to our programs or potential products that may be developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborators frequently depend on outside sources of funding to conduct or complete research and development, such as grants or other awards. In addition, our academic collaborators may depend on graduate students, medical students, or research assistants to conduct certain work, and such individuals may not be fully trained or experienced in certain areas, or they may elect to discontinue their participation in a particular research program, creating an inability to complete ongoing research in a timely and efficient manner. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to control the precise timing and execution of any experiments that may be conducted. We do not have formal agreements in place with most of our collaborators, who retain the ability to pursue other research, product development or commercial opportunities that may be directly competitive with our programs. If these collaborators elect to prioritize or pursue other programs in lieu of ours, we may not be able to advance product development programs in an efficient or effective manner, if at all. If a collaborator is pursuing a competitive program and encounters unexpected financial or capability limitations, they may be motivated to reduce the priority placed on our programs or delay certain activities related to our programs. Any of these developments could harm or slow our product and technology development efforts. In particular, we depend upon Dr. Paolo Macchiarini, the surgeon who has led all of the clinical surgeries to date using our technology. Dr. Macchiarini’s team developed the initial version of our InBreath airway bioreactor, which we have licensed from the inventors. We continue to collaborate with Dr. Macchiarini on grant proposals and product development. If Dr. Macchiarini were not available to continue to collaborate with us or perform surgeries it would materially slow development of our products. On September 27, 2012, Dr. Macchiarini was 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS arrested in Italy for attempted fraud and extortion for allegedly attempting to persuade severely ill patients to choose private hospitals in other countries over less expensive Italian public hospitals. He was temporarily placed under house arrest and on October 15, 2012 was released from house arrest and is free to travel internationally and to perform surgeries. The case is ongoing. Dr. Macchiarini believes these charges are without merit and has, and intends to continue to, vigorously defend these charges. These allegations do not relate to any surgeries involving our products and have not prevented Dr. Macchiarini from performing further surgeries with our products including the April 2013 surgery in the U.S. and the other 2013 surgeries in Sweden and Russia. If Dr. Macchiarini decides to terminate his collaboration with us, if the case described above consumes a significant amount of his time, or if the case prevents him from performing surgeries, our product development efforts could be adversely affected and it could cause harm to our reputation or business. Public perception of ethical and social issues surrounding the use of cell technology may limit or discourage the use of our technologies, which may reduce the demand for our products and technologies and reduce our revenues. Our success will depend in part upon our collaborators’ ability to develop therapeutic approaches incorporating, or discovered through, the use of cells. If regenerative medicine technology is perceived negatively by the public for social, ethical, medical or other reasons, governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries may call for prohibition of, or limits on, cell-based technologies and other approaches to regeneration. Although the surgeons using our products have not to date used the more controversial stem cells derived from human embryos or fetuses in the human transplant surgeries using our products, claims that human-derived stem cell technologies are ineffective or unethical may influence public attitudes. The subject of cell and stem cell technologies in general has received negative publicity and aroused public debate in the U.S. and some other countries. Ethical and other concerns about such cells could materially harm the market acceptance of our products. Our products will subject us to liability exposure. We face an inherent risk of product liability claims, especially with respect to our products that will be used within the human body, including the scaffolds we manufacture. Product liability coverage is expensive and sometimes difficult to obtain. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. We may be subject to claims for liabilities for unsuccessful outcomes of surgeries involving our products, which may include claims relating to patient death. We may also be subject to claims for liabilities relating to patients that suffer serious complications or death during or following transplants involving our products. Our current product liability coverage is $15 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We will need to increase our insurance coverage if and when we begin commercializing any of our products. There can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage will extend to other products in the future. Any product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy all liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. If claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. Regardless of whether we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and could result in, among others: • significant awards against us; • substantial litigation costs; • injury to our reputation and the reputation of our products; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; and • adverse regulatory action. Any of these results would substantially harm our business. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS If restrictions on reimbursements or other conditions imposed by payers limit our customers’ actual or potential financial returns on our products, our customers may not purchase our products or may reduce their purchases. Our customers’ willingness to use our products will depend in part on the extent to which coverage for these products is available from government payers, private health insurers and other third-party payers. These payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved treatments and products in the regenerative medicine field, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available for these treatments and products. In addition, third-party payers may require additional clinical trial data to establish or continue reimbursement coverage. These clinical trials, if required, could take years to complete and could be expensive. There can be no assurance that the payers will agree to continue reimbursement or provide additional coverage based upon these clinical trials. Failure to obtain adequate reimbursement would result in reduced sales of our products. We depend upon a single-source supplier for the hardware and software used for our organ bioreactor control and acquisition system. The loss of this supplier, or future single-source suppliers we may rely on, or their failure to provide us with an adequate supply of their products or services on a timely basis, could adversely affect our business. We currently have a single supplier for the hardware and software that we use for our organ bioreactor control and acquisition systems. We may also rely on other single-source suppliers for critical components of our products in the future. If we were unable to acquire hardware or software or other products or services from applicable single-source suppliers, we could experience a delay in developing and manufacturing our products. We use and generate hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our research, development and manufacturing involves the controlled use of hazardous chemicals, and we may incur significant costs as a result of the need to comply with numerous laws and regulations. For example, certain volatile organic laboratory chemicals we use, such as fluorinated hydrocarbons, must be disposed of as hazardous waste. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, foreign health authorities and other regulatory requirements, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture our products, and resulting waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, our operations could be interrupted. Further, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Our products are novel and will require market acceptance. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial use of our products, their commercial success will depend upon acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payers such as health insurance companies and other members of the medical community. Market acceptance of our products is also dependent upon our ability to provide acceptable evidence and the perception of the positive characteristics of our products relative to existing or future treatment methods, including their safety, efficacy and/or other positive advantages. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, both within and outside of our control. If our products do not become widely accepted, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to develop products for other organs. Our growth strategy includes expanding the use of our products in treatments pertaining to organs other than the trachea, such as the esophagus, lungs, heart valves and heart. These other organs are more complex than the trachea. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully apply our technologies to these other more complex organs, which will limit our expected growth. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on, or misappropriating, the intellectual property or confidentiality rights of others. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property or confidentiality rights of others, including the patent rights, trademarks and trade names and confidential information of third parties. For example, we have sublicensed certain rights pertaining to our use of the mark Harvard Apparatus from Harvard Bioscience, including the use in our corporate name. Harvard Bioscience has licensed the rights to such mark from Harvard University. If the license to Harvard Bioscience or our sublicense were terminated, it could have an adverse effect on us. We have also received correspondence from legal counsel to Nanofiber Solutions, Inc., or NFS, claiming that in developing our scaffold product and related intellectual property, we may have committed misappropriation, unauthorized use and disclosure of confidential information, and possible infringement of intellectual property rights of NFS. We have received correspondence from legal counsel to UCL Business PLC, or UCLB, challenging the validity of the assignment of certain patent applications that have been assigned to us by Dr. Macchiarini. We have also received correspondence from an academic researcher implying that one of our products may violate an issued patent. We do not believe that our current products violate this patent. To the extent that any of such claims are valid, if we had utilized, or were to utilize, such patent applications or patents without an agreement from the owner thereof, it could result in infringement of the intellectual property rights of the respective owner. Intellectual property and related litigation is costly and the outcome is uncertain. If we do not prevail in any such intellectual property or related litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity, or obtain a license to or design around the intellectual property or confidential information in question. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to design around any third party patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products and services, which could result in reduced revenue. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits should they occur. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of being rejected and patents not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our continued success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the regenerative medicine and medical device fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We may rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not be accepted and patents might not be issued, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued or which may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. We may also operate in countries where we do not have patent rights and in those countries we would not have patent protection. We also rely on trademarks 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS and trade names in our business. The laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive could be materially impaired. It is also possible that our intellectual property may be stolen via cyber attacks or similar methods. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not be able to obtain these agreements in all circumstances in part due to local regulations. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade-secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Our competitors and potential competitors may have greater resources than we have and may develop products and technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products and technologies or may develop competing relationships with our key collaborators. We expect to compete with multiple pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and scientific research product companies. Companies working in competing areas include, among others, Aastrom Biosciences, Advanced Cell Technologies, Aldagen, Athersys, BioTime, Baxter International, Inc., Bose Corporation, Celgene, Cytori Therapeutics, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Genzyme (acquired by Sanofi-aventis), Harvest Technologies, InVivo Therapeutics, Mesoblast, Miramatrix Medical, Nanofiber Solutions, NeoStem, Neuralstem, Organovo, Osiris Therapeutics, Pleuristem Smiths Medical, Tengion, Tissue Genesis, Inc., Tissue Growth Technologies (acquired by Instron), Transmedics, United Therapeutics and W.L. Gore and Associates. In addition, there are many academic and clinical centers that are developing regenerative technologies that may one day become competitors for us. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing, and personnel resources than we do. We cannot, with any accuracy, forecast when or if these companies are likely to bring regenerative medicine medical products to market for indications that we are also pursuing. Many of these potential competitors may be further along in the process of product development and also operate large, company-funded research and development programs. We expect that other products will compete with our current and future products based on efficacy, safety, cost, and intellectual property positions. While we believe that these will be the primary competitive factors, other factors include obtaining marketing exclusivity under certain regulations, including the Orphan Drug Act, availability of supply, manufacturing, marketing and sales expertise and capability, and reimbursement coverage. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products and may also develop competing relationships with our key collaborators. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the field. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. The effects of any such actions of our competitors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not successfully manage our growth, our business goals may not be achieved. To manage growth, we will be required to continue to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hire, train and manage additional employees. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth and we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and regenerative medicine area is intense, and we operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including Boston, Massachusetts, where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for qualified personnel is intense and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy and expensive, and may become more expensive in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS number of qualified employees or otherwise manage our growth effectively, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to our international sales and operations, including fluctuations in exchange rates, local economic conditions and delays in collection of accounts receivable. We intend to generate significant revenues outside the U.S. in multiple foreign currencies including Euros, British pounds, and in U.S. dollar-denominated transactions conducted with customers who generate revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For those foreign customers who purchase our products in U.S. dollars, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which those customers do business may have a negative impact on the demand for our products in foreign countries where the U.S. dollar has increased in value compared to the local currency. Since we have operations based outside the U.S. and we generate revenues and incur operating expenses in multiple foreign currencies, we experience currency exchange risk with respect to those foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses. We cannot predict the consolidated effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Our international operations subject us to laws regarding sanctioned countries, entities and persons, customs, import-export, laws regarding transactions in foreign countries, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery and other laws regarding interactions with healthcare professionals. Among other things, these laws restrict, and in some cases prohibit, U.S. companies from directly or indirectly selling goods, technology or services to people or entities in certain countries. In addition, these laws require that we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices in foreign countries. Local economic conditions, legal, regulatory or political considerations, disruptions from strikes, the effectiveness of our sales representatives and distributors, local competition and changes in local medical practice could also affect our sales to foreign markets. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale frequently vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S. In particular we collaborate with a hospital in Krasnodar, Russia where several patients have been treated with HART-Tracheas. Recently there have been significant civil, political, and economic disturbances in Russia, Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula. While these actions have not yet prevented us from continuing the collaboration we cannot be certain that future events, including U.S., EU or international sanctions on Russia would not impair or even prevent this collaboration. Risks Related To Separation We have no operating history as an independent company, and we may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate as an independent public company. Prior to our separation from Harvard Bioscience, or the Separation, our business was operated by Harvard Bioscience as part of its broader corporate organization rather than as a stand-alone company. Harvard Bioscience assisted us by providing financing and certain corporate functions. Following the Separation, Harvard Bioscience will have no obligation to provide assistance to us other than the interim transitional services which will be provided by Harvard Bioscience. These transitional services include, among other things, accounting, benefits administration, payroll and information technology services. Because our business has not been operated as an independent company, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement the changes necessary to operate independently or that we will not incur additional costs operating independently that would have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from Harvard Bioscience. As a stand-alone, independent public company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing our management to design and implement corporate policies and strategies that are based primarily on the characteristics of our business, allowing us to focus our financial resources wholly on our own operations and implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our own specific needs. By separating from Harvard Bioscience there is a risk that our company may be more susceptible to market 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of Harvard Bioscience. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a stand-alone, independent regenerative medicine company or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place a greater value on our company as a stand-alone regenerative medicine company than on our business as a part of Harvard Bioscience. If the Separation and related distribution of all of the shares of our common stock by Harvard Bioscience, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Harvard Bioscience could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Harvard Bioscience for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. Harvard Bioscience has informed us that on June 28, 2013 it received a Supplemental Ruling to the Private Letter Ruling dated March 22, 2013 from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the Separation and related distribution of all of the shares of our common stock by Harvard Bioscience, or the Distribution, will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code continuing in effect. The private letter and supplemental rulings and the tax opinion that Harvard Bioscience received from Burns & Levinson LLP, special counsel to Harvard Bioscience, rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter and supplemental rulings nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the private letter and supplemental rulings do not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the Distribution will qualify for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the private letter and supplemental rulings and opinion, the IRS could determine the Distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, among other reasons, it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter and supplemental rulings are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the Distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, Harvard Bioscience would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and Harvard Bioscience stockholders who receive shares of our common stock in the Distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable Distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Under the tax sharing agreement between Harvard Bioscience and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Harvard Bioscience against any tax resulting from the Distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) other actions or failures to act by us, or (iii) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Harvard Bioscience and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Harvard Bioscience or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions. In addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Harvard Bioscience of the Separation and Distribution, for the two-year period following the Distribution we may be limited, except in specified circumstances, from: • entering into certain transactions pursuant to which all or a portion of our stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise; 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; • repurchasing our common stock; • ceasing to actively conduct our regenerative medicine business; and • taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the Separation and Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company, and we may experience increased costs, potentially as a result of the Separation. Since the completion of the Distribution, Harvard Bioscience has and will be contractually obligated to provide to us only those services specified in the transition services agreement and the other agreements we entered into with Harvard Bioscience in connection with the Separation and Distribution. The transition services agreement provides for services to be provided for various time frames of limited length, ranging from six months from the date of the Distribution to 12 months thereafter. We may be unable to replace in a timely manner or on comparable terms the services or other benefits that Harvard Bioscience previously provided to us that are not specified in the transition services agreement or the other agreements. Also, upon the expiration of the terms of the required services under the transition services agreement or other agreements, such services will be provided internally or by unaffiliated third parties, and we expect that in some instances, we will incur higher costs to obtain such services than we incurred under the terms of such agreements. We anticipate that we will incur additional incremental expenses associated with being an independent, public company. These additional pretax expenses are estimated to be approximately $1.3 million for the first twelve months following the Separation. In addition, if Harvard Bioscience does not continue to perform effectively the transition services and the other services that are called for under the transition services agreement and other agreements, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our operating results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, after the expiration of the terms of the required services under transition services agreement and the other agreements, we may be unable to replace in a timely manner or on comparable terms the services specified in such agreements. Prior to our Separation, we utilized the executive management team and administrative resources of Harvard Bioscience. Many daily functions were previously performed by Harvard Bioscience, including those related to SEC filings and auditing and review by accountants of required financial statements, which have become our responsibility since the Distribution. In addition, there has been and will continue to be a time period during which new personnel will have to learn these functions. The lack of these relationships and resources may harm our operating results, financial condition and our ability to raise any required debt or equity funding. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this report may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because: • our historical and financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Harvard Bioscience, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and • our historical and financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to incur in the future as a result of the Separation, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed business as a result of the Separation and from reduced economies of scale. Since the Separation and Distribution, we are also responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent public company, including costs related to corporate governance and listed and registered 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS securities. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. We may have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with Harvard Bioscience. The agreements related to the Separation, including the separation and distribution agreement, tax sharing agreement, transition services agreement and the other agreements, were negotiated in the context of the Separation while we were still part of Harvard Bioscience and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of the agreements we negotiated in the context of the Separation related to, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among Harvard Bioscience and us. We may have received better terms from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business. Some of the members of our Board of Directors are also members of the Harvard Bioscience Board of Directors. The ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of shares of common stock, options, or other equity awards of Harvard Bioscience, as well as the continued roles of our executive officers and certain directors with Harvard Bioscience may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. The ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of shares of common stock, options, or other equity awards of Harvard Bioscience may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their current or former positions with Harvard Bioscience, certain of our executive officers, and some of our directors, own shares of Harvard Bioscience common stock, options to purchase shares of Harvard Bioscience common stock or other equity awards. The individual holdings of common stock, options to purchase common stock of Harvard Bioscience or our company or other equity awards, may be significant for some of these persons compared to such persons’ total assets. Ownership by our directors and officers of common stock or options to purchase common stock of Harvard Bioscience, or any other equity awards, creates, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Harvard Bioscience than the decisions have for us. In addition, certain of our directors are members of the Board of Directors of Harvard Bioscience. The continued service at both companies creates, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Harvard Bioscience than the decisions have for us. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Harvard Bioscience that we did not assume in our agreements. In connection with the Separation, Harvard Bioscience has generally agreed to retain all liabilities that did not historically arise from our business. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Harvard Bioscience’s retained liabilities. Under our agreements with Harvard Bioscience, Harvard Bioscience has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to these retained liabilities. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Harvard Bioscience. Any disputes that arise between us and Harvard Bioscience with respect to our past and ongoing relationships could harm our business operations. Disputes may arise between Harvard Bioscience and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • intellectual property, technology and business matters, including failure to make required technology transfers and failure to comply with non-compete provisions applicable to Harvard Bioscience and us; • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from the Separation; 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS • distribution and supply obligations; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • sales or distributions by Harvard Bioscience of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • the nature, quality and pricing of transitional services Harvard Bioscience has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Harvard Bioscience and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unrelated party. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock A trading market that will provide you with adequate liquidity may not develop for our common stock. The current public market for our common stock has limited trading and liquidity. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of a more active trading market in our common stock, or how liquid that market might be. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly and year-end operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the other factors discussed under these “Risk Factors,” specific factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand and pricing for our products; • government or private healthcare reimbursement policies; • physician and patient acceptance of any of our current or future products; • manufacturing stoppages or delays; • introduction of competing products or technologies; • our operating expenses which fluctuate due to growth of our business; and • timing and size of any new product or technology acquisitions we may complete. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • the success or failure of surgeries and procedures involving the use our products; • the success and costs of preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances for our products; • a shift in our investor base; • our quarterly or annual results of operations, or those of other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions or intellectual property developments or issuances; • the failure to maintain our NASDAQ listing or failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; our issuance of equity, debt or other financing instruments; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Substantial sales of common stock may occur, which could cause our stock price to decline. Some Harvard Bioscience stockholders, including possibly some of its large stockholders, have likely sold, and may continue to sell, our common stock received in the Distribution for reasons such as that our business profile or market capitalization as an independent company does not fit their investment objectives. The sales of significant amounts of our common stock, or the perception in the market that this will occur, may result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership will be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership will be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees. Our 2013 Equity Incentive Plan provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. In addition, your percentage ownership will be diluted by our issuance of common stock following the exercise of options, or vesting of restricted stock units, we issued pertaining to the adjustment and conversion of outstanding Harvard Bioscience equity awards as a result of the Separation. Our costs will increase significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. Historically, our business was operated as a division of a public company. As a public company with separate SEC reporting, regulatory, and stock exchange listing requirements, we will incur additional legal, accounting, compliance, and other expenses that we have not incurred historically. We are obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 and other sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and therefore need to have the ability to prepare financial statements that are compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. In addition, we are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and its associated regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Sarbanes-Oxley and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and the Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have increased regulation of, and imposed enhanced disclosure and corporate governance requirements on, public companies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased marketing, selling, and administrative expenses, as well as a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. These changes will require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and implementing them could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We also expect these recent regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly. In addition, if we fail to implement the required controls with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our results of operations on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we do not implement such required controls in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and clients in our company and could negatively affect our business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Provisions of Delaware law, of our amended and restated charter and amended and restated bylaws and our Shareholder Rights Plan may make a takeover more difficult, which could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt, which is opposed by management and the Board of Directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 20% or more of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all stockholders other than the acquiring person. We also have a staggered Board of Directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors in any one year. Any removal of directors will require a super-majority vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares entitled to be cast on the election of directors which may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and Board of Directors. Such provisions may also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. Any issuance of preferred stock in the future may dilute the rights of our common stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of these shares. Our Board of Directors may exercise this authority without any further approval of stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of future holders of preferred stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Currently, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be a stockholder’s sole source of gain. The recently enacted JOBS Act will allow us to postpone the date by which we must comply with certain laws and regulations and to reduce the amount of information provided in reports filed with the SEC. We cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are and we will remain an “emerging growth company” until the earliest to occur of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which our total annual revenues equal or exceed $1 billion (subject to adjustment for inflation), (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our first sale of common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a “large accelerated filer” under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on some or all of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. If we avail ourselves of certain exemptions 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS from various reporting requirements, our reduced disclosure may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us to a level acceptable by them and may result in less investor confidence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 