Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the SEC. This section should be read together with the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements of News Corporation (the “Financial Statements”) and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report. The Company believes that the assumptions underlying the Financial Statements are reasonable. However, the Financial Statements included herein may not necessarily reflect the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the future or what they would have been had the Company been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented. 2 Table of Contents BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company’s five reporting segments are described below. In addition, the Company owns a 50% stake in Foxtel, which is accounted for as an equity investment. For financial information regarding the Company’s segments and operations in geographic areas, see Note 16 to the Company’s Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. For the year ended June 30, 2013 Revenues SegmentEBITDA (in millions) News and Information Services $ 6,731 $ 795 Cable Network Programming(a) 324 63 Digital Real Estate Services 345 168 Book Publishing 1,369 142 Other 122 (480 ) Total $ 8,891 $ 688 (a) As a result of the acquisition of Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (“CMH”), the Company’s ownership interest in FOX SPORTS Australia increased to 100% and accordingly, the results of FOX SPORTS Australia have been included in a new Cable Network Programming segment since November 2012. News and Information Services The Company’s News and Information Services segment consists of Dow Jones, News Corp Australia (which includes News Limited and its subsidiaries), News UK (formerly known as News International), the New York Post and News America Marketing. The News and Information Services segment generates revenue primarily through print and digital advertising sales and through circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products. Dow Jones Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, which distributes its content and data through a variety of media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, electronic readers, mobile applications, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, conferences, radio and video. Dow Jones offers products targeting individual consumer and enterprise customers, including The Wall Street Journal, DJX, Dow Jones Newswires, Factiva, Barron’s and MarketWatch, and its revenue is diversified across business-to-consumer and business-to-business subscriptions, advertising, and licensing fees for its print and digital products. Through its premier brands and authoritative journalism, Dow Jones products targeting individual consumers provide insights, research and understanding that customers need in order to be informed and make educated financial decisions. With a focus on the financial markets, investing and other professional services, many of these products offer advertisers an attractive customer demographic. Products targeting consumers include the following: • The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). The Wall Street Journal, the Dow Jones flagship product, is available in print, online at WSJ.com, and across multiple mobile, electronic reader and tablet devices, and covers business developments and trends, national and international news along with analysis, economics, financial markets, investing, opinion, lifestyle, culture and sports. The Wall Street Journal is the leading circulation daily newspaper in the U.S., with total average print and digital circulation of 2,378,827 for the six months ended March 31, 2013 based on Alliance for Audited Media (“AAM”) data. WSJ is printed at plants located around the U.S., including nine owned by the Company. WSJ sells regional advertising in three major U.S. regional editions (Eastern, Central and Western) and 21 smaller sub- 3 Table of Contents regional editions. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged more than 69 million visits per month for the year ended June 30, 2013 according to Adobe Omniture, and includes local language editions in Chinese, Japanese, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Bahasa, Turkish and Korean. Print and digital products under the WSJ brand include: Print: The Wall Street Journal (including its Asia and Europe editions), The Wall Street Journal Sunday, and WSJ.Magazine. Digital: WSJ.com (includes Risk & Compliance Journal, CIO Journal and CFO Journal), WSJ.com international sites (asia.WSJ.com, Europe.WSJ.com, WSJ.de (Germany), cn.WSJ.com (China), jp.WSJ.com (Japan), kr.wsj.com (Korea), indo.wsj.com (Indonesia), india.wsj.com, wsj.com.tr (Turkey) and Latin American and Brazil local language editions available through WSJ.com). Video: WSJ Live (live and on-demand news online through WSJ.com and other platforms including Internet-connected TV and set-top boxes). • Barron’s. Barron’s is available in print, online at Barrons.com, and on electronic reader and mobile devices, and delivers news, analysis, investigative reporting, company profiles and insightful statistics for investors and others interested in the investment world. Print and digital products under the Barron’s brand include: Print: Barron’s (weekly magazine with an average paid weekly circulation of 305,513 for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on AAM data). Digital: Barrons.com (offers both free and premium content providing in-depth analysis and commentary on the markets, updated every business day online, along with alerts and tools) and Barron’s iPad application (paid application which resembles the website). Barrons.com had over 170,000 paid subscribers on average for the year ended June 30, 2013. • The Wall Street Journal Digital Network. WSJDN comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. WSJDN had more than 1.3 million paid subscribers on average for the year ended June 30, 2013 and, during that same period, averaged more than 137 million visits per month with more than 523 million page views per month according to Adobe Omniture. In addition to WSJ.com and Barrons.com, discussed above, WSJDN includes MarketWatch, AllThingsD and related services. Marketwatch.com. Marketwatch.com is an investing and financial news website targeting active investors. It also provides real-time commentary and investment tools and data. Products include an iPad application (paid application), MarketWatch Mobile (free iPhone application and mobile site), MarketWatch Premium Newsletter (paid newsletter on a variety of investing topics), Big Charts (free investment charting website) and Virtual Stock Exchange (free stock simulation game through the website). MarketWatch.com averaged more than 37 million visits per month for the year ended June 30, 2013 according to Adobe Omniture. AllThingsD.com. AllThingsD.com is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of Silicon Valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis. • Dow Jones Local Media. In September 2013, the Company sold the Dow Jones Local Media Group, which operates eight daily and 15 weekly newspapers in seven states, to an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group. 4 Table of Contents Dow Jones Institutional products, which target enterprise customers, combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research and understanding. These products are designed to be integral to the success of Dow Jones’ enterprise customers, and Dow Jones expects to sustain strong retention rates by providing high levels of service and continued innovation through news, data and tools that meet its customers’ specific needs. These products include the following: • DJX. DJX was launched in April 2013 as a bundle of underlying products, including Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires (including the new DJ Dominant wire), certain Private Markets products (e.g., VentureSource, LP Source), certain Risk & Compliance products, WSJ.com and Barrons.com. Over the coming year, Dow Jones intends to begin consolidating the content within these products such that DJX is no longer a bundle of products, but instead, offers one unified product experience. DJX represents a change in Dow Jones’ institutional business strategy, particularly with respect to the enterprise market. In the future, Dow Jones expects that some of the individual products within DJX will no longer generally be available separately for sale or renewal, including the main Factiva product, the DJ Dominant wire, VentureSource, LP Source and Risk & Compliance – Risk Database Research. Certain products such as Dow Jones Newswires (other than DJ Dominant), the feeds associated with Factiva (but not the main Factiva product), WSJ.com and Barrons.com are expected to remain available for sale separately. More information on Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, Private Markets products and Risk & Compliance products is provided below: Factiva. Factiva is a leading provider of global business content, built on an archive of important, original publishing sources. This combination of business news and information, plus sophisticated tools, helps professionals find, monitor, interpret and share essential information. As of June 30, 2013, there were approximately 1.1 million activated Factiva users, including both institutional and individual accounts. Many of the institutional accounts have multiple individual users. Factiva offers content from over 32,000 global news and information sources from nearly 200 countries and in 28 languages. Thousands of Factiva’s sources are not available for free on the Internet and more than 3,800 sources make information available via Factiva on or before the date of publication by the source. Factiva leverages complex metadata extraction and text-mining to help its customers build precise searches and alerts to access and monitor this data. Dow Jones Newswires. Dow Jones Newswires distributes real-time business news, information, analysis, commentary and statistical data to financial professionals and investors worldwide. It publishes, on average, over 19,000 news items in 13 languages each day via terminals and trading platforms reaching hundreds of thousands of financial professionals. This content also reaches millions of individual investors via customer portals and intranets of brokerage and trading firms, as well as digital media publishers. DJ Dominant is a new newswire feature that delivers certain exclusive news and analysis from Dow Jones journalists to DJX users before subscribers to other Dow Jones newswires and products. Private Markets. Dow Jones Private Markets products provide news and comprehensive data on venture and private-equity backed private companies, and their investors, to help venture capitalists, financial professionals and other service providers identify deal and partnership opportunities, perform comprehensive due diligence and examine trends in venture capital investment, fund-raising and liquidity. Products include VentureSource, LP Source, VentureWire, Private Equity Analyst and LBO Wire. Risk & Compliance. Dow Jones Risk & Compliance products provide data solutions for customers focused on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and monitoring embargo and sanction lists. Dow Jones’ solutions allow customers to filter their business transactions against its data to identify regulatory, corporate and reputational risk, and request follow-up due diligence reports. Products include Dow Jones Watchlist, Dow Jones Anti-Corruption, Dow Jones Sanction Alert and Dow Jones Due Diligence. 5 Table of Contents News Corp Australia News Corp Australia is one of the leading news and information providers in Australia by readership and circulation, owning over 120 newspapers covering a national, regional and suburban footprint. As of June 30, 2013, its daily, Sunday, weekly and bi-weekly newspapers accounted for more than 59% of the total circulation of newspapers in Australia, and during the year ended June 30, 2013, its Sunday newspaper network was read by approximately 4.8 million Australians on average every week. In addition, its digital mastheads and other websites are among the leading digital properties in Australia based on monthly site visits. News Corp Australia’s news portfolio includes: • The Australian and The Weekend Australian (National). The Australian is published Monday through Friday, and The Weekend Australian is published on Saturday. Based on Audit Bureau of Circulations (“ABC”) data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 121,000 for The Australian and 266,000 for The Weekend Australian. In addition, The Australian and The Weekend Australian had a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 3.1 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly Enhanced Media Metrics Australia (“EMMA”) combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. The Company believes EMMA data, which incorporates more frequent sampling and combines both online and print usage into a single metric, more accurately and comprehensively reflects consumption of its publications. • The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney). The Daily Telegraph is published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 320,000 for The Daily Telegraph and 575,000 for The Sunday Telegraph. In addition, The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday Telegraph had a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 4.0 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. • Herald Sun and Sunday Herald Sun (Melbourne). Herald Sun is published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 438,000 for Herald Sun and 507,000 for Sunday Herald Sun. In addition, Herald Sun and Sunday Herald Sun had a total unduplicated print and digital audience of almost 4.1 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. • The Courier Mail and The Sunday Mail (Brisbane). The Courier Mail is published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 190,000 for The Courier Mail and 433,000 for The Sunday Mail. In addition, The Courier Mail and The Sunday Mail had a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 2.8 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. • The Advertiser and Sunday Mail (Adelaide). The Advertiser is published Monday through Saturday. Based on ABC data, average daily paid circulation for the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 172,000 for The Advertiser and 256,000 for Sunday Mail. In addition, The Advertiser and Sunday Mail had a total unduplicated print and digital audience of over 1.4 million for the month of June 2013 based on average monthly EMMA combined print, mobile and tablet audience data for the year ended June 30, 2013 and total unique website audience in June 2013 according to Nielsen monthly total audience ratings. • A large number of community newspapers in all major capitol cities, as well as leading regional publications in Cairns, Gold Coast, Townsville and Geelong and in the other capitol cities of Perth, Hobart and Darwin. 6 Table of Contents News Corp Australia has launched paid-for digital platforms for Herald Sun, Sunday Herald Sun, The Daily Telegraph (Perth), The Sunday Telegraph, The Courier Mail, The Sunday Mail, The Advertiser, Sunday Mail and the FOX SPORTS website, which are encompassed under News Corp Australia’s news+ digital product brand. News Corp Australia’s broad portfolio of digital properties also comprises a number of other premier assets, including leading general interest sites in Australia such as news.com.au, which provides business, entertainment, lifestyle, news and sports information, taste.com.au, a leading food and recipe site, and kidspot.com.au, a leading parenting website. Other digital media assets include a 50% stake in CareerOne.com.au (a joint venture with Monster.com), a 50% stake in carsguide.com.au (a joint venture with a consortium of leading car dealers), an 89.5% stake in the SportingPulse (which supplies a scheduling tool for sports organizations), and 100% of Business Spectator and Eureka Report (online business and investment news and commentary services). News UK News UK publishes The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times, which are leading newspapers in the U.K. As of June 30, 2013, sales of these three titles accounted for approximately one-third of all national newspaper sales in the U.K. News UK’s newspapers (except some Saturday and Sunday supplements) are printed at News UK’s world-class printing facilities in England, Scotland and Ireland. In addition to revenue from the sale of advertising, circulation and subscriptions to its print and digital products, News UK also generates revenue by providing third party printing services through these facilities and is one of the largest contract printers in the U.K. In addition, News UK has developed a portfolio of highly complementary ancillary product offerings, including Sun Bingo, the U.K.’s largest online bingo platform, as well as newer products such as Sunday Times Driving, a digital classified offering, and The Times and The Sunday Times Whisky Club, which supplies premium products and accompanying editorial content. • The Sun. The Sun newspaper is published Monday through Saturday and on Sunday since February 2012. Based on National Readership Survey data for the six months ended June 30, 2013, The Sun is the most read national newspaper in the U.K., with an average issue readership of approximately 6,200,000 Monday through Saturday for The Sun and 5,500,000 for The Sun on Sunday. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 2,228,000 for The Sun and 1,914,000 for The Sun on Sunday. • The Times. The Times newspaper is published Monday through Saturday with an average issue readership of approximately 1,200,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 396,000, consisting of approximately 153,000 paid print subscribers and approximately 243,000 circulation copies. As of June 30, 2013, The Times also had approximately 140,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also publishes The Times Literary Supplement, a weekly literary review. • The Sunday Times. The Sunday Times is the leading broadsheet Sunday newspaper in the U.K. with an average issue readership of approximately 2,500,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on National Readership Survey data. Average daily paid print circulation for the six months ended June 30, 2013 based on ABC data was approximately 867,000, consisting of approximately 185,000 paid print subscribers and approximately 682,000 circulation copies. As of June 30, 2013, The Sunday Times also had approximately 135,000 paid digital subscribers based on internal sources. News UK also distributes content through its digital platforms, including its websites, thesun.co.uk, thetimes.co.uk and thesundaytimes.co.uk, as well as mobile applications. In August 2013, News UK launched The Sun iPad edition and Sun+, the title’s new digital bundle, which delivers exclusive digital entertainment, including Barclay’s Premier League match clips and Sun+ perks, a collection of perks, downloads, offers and competitions. The Sun is the first tabloid newspaper to be fully paid-for across every platform. News UK continues to enhance its online and mobile offerings, including through its recent acquisition of the rights to show Football Association match clips across its digital platforms for four years, beginning in 2014. 7 Table of Contents New York Post The New York Post (the “Post”) is the oldest continuously published daily newspaper in the U.S., with a focus on coverage of the New York metropolitan area. The print version of the Post is primarily distributed in New York and throughout the Northeast, as well as Florida and California. The Post provides a variety of general interest content ranging from breaking news to business analysis, and is known in particular for its comprehensive sports coverage, famous headlines and its iconic Page Six section, an authority on celebrity news. The Post’s digital platforms feature all the sections of the print version as well as continually updated breaking news and other content and extend the reach of the Post to a national audience. For the six months ended March 31, 2013, average weekday circulation, including digital editions, was 500,520. The Post is printed in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the U.S. The Company’s Community Newspaper Group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the New York metropolitan area. News America Marketing (“NAM”) NAM is a leading provider of coupon promotions, advertising programs, special offers and other direct consumer marketing solutions through a network of more than 1,700 publications, 50,000 retail stores and 400 partner sites including SmartSource.com as well as through the expanding audience for its app, SmartSource Xpress for iPad and iPhone. NAM offers direct consumer marketing solutions for companies that include consumer packaged goods manufacturers, financial services, pharmaceutical manufacturers, quick-service and casual restaurants, retailers and other marketers in the U.S. and Canada. NAM has developed broad, long-standing relationships with many well-known retailers and brands, including Procter & Gamble, General Mills, Kraft, GlaxoSmithKline, Walmart, Kroger, American Express, Target, Loblaws and DirectTV. NAM’s marketing solutions are available via multiple distribution channels, including publications, in stores and online, primarily under the SmartSource brand name. NAM provides customers with “one-stop shopping” for their direct-to-consumer marketing needs through its three primary business areas: • Free-Standing Inserts: Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday publications. NAM is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the U.S. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAM to produce free-standing inserts where their offers are featured, often on an exclusive basis within their product category. NAM contracts with and pays newspaper publishers, among others, to include the free-standing inserts in their papers. NAM’s free-standing insert products, which are distributed under the SmartSource Magazine® brand, have a circulation of almost 74 million based on internal sources and are distributed 43 times a year. • In-Store Advertising and Merchandising: NAM is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers. NAM’s marketing products include: at-shelf advertising such as coupon, information and sample-dispensing machines, as well as floor and shopping cart advertising, among others, and are found in approximately 50,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers across North America. NAM also provides in-store merchandising services, including production and installation of instant-redeemable coupons, on-pack stickers, shipper assembly, display set-up and refilling, shelf management and new product cut-ins. • SmartSource Digital: SmartSource Digital manages NAM’s portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. The database marketing business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides direct-mail solutions via access to a national network of retailer frequent-shopper card databases offering information on the purchase behavior of more than 100 million cardholders. The SmartSource Savings Network, which includes SmartSource.com and SmartSource Xpress, encompasses all of NAM’s electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming. 8 Table of Contents NAM believes its programs have key advantages when compared to other marketing options available to packaged goods companies, retailers and other marketers. NAM offers cost-effective programs that reach a national audience of engaged consumers who are actively seeking coupons or discounts and who are at a critical moment in their purchase decision. By delivering an immediate incentive or brand message to shoppers as they are making brand decisions, NAM believes free-standing inserts and in-store advertising have an advantage over competing forms of mass media such as radio or television. The Company’s News and Information Services products compete with a wide range of media businesses, including both print publications and digital media and information services. The Company’s newspapers, magazines and digital publications compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers, web and application-based media, social media sources and other traditional media such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition for print and digital subscriptions is based on the news and editorial content, subscription pricing, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. Competition for advertising is based upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective media for their advertising budgets, which is in turn based upon various factors including circulation volume, readership levels, audience demographics, advertising rates and advertising effectiveness results. In recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenue due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper, including digital sources available free of charge to consumers. The Company believes that these changes will continue to pose opportunities and challenges within the newspaper industry, and that it is well positioned to continue to benefit from the transition to digital consumption. The Company plans to leverage its global reach and brand recognition and its proprietary technology to expand its digital offerings, many of which are in early stages and have significant potential for growth. DJX and other Dow Jones Institutional products that target enterprise customers compete with various information service providers and global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg L.P., LexisNexis, as well as many other Internet-based providers of news and information. NAM competes against other providers of advertising, marketing and merchandising products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts, direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, providers of point-of-purchase and other in-store programs and providers of savings and/or grocery-focused digital applications, as well as other traditional media such as television, magazines, outdoor displays and radio. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, rate of coupon redemption, store coverage and other factors. The Company believes that based on the circulation of its free-standing inserts, the reach of its in-store marketing products and the audience for its online programs, NAM provides broader consumer access than many of its competitors. Cable Network Programming The Company’s Cable Network Programming segment consists of FOX SPORTS Australia, the leading sports programming provider in Australia based on total subscribers as of June 30, 2013. FOX SPORTS Australia is focused on live national and international sports events and provides featured original and licensed premium sports content tailored to the Australian market, including live sports such as National Rugby League, the domestic football league, English Premier League, international cricket, as well as the NFL. FOX SPORTS Australia offers seven standard definition television channels, high definition versions of five of those channels, an interactive viewing application and one IPTV channel. Its channels consist of FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2, FOX SPORTS 3, FOX FOOTY, FOX SPORTS NEWS, FUEL TV and SPEED that broadcast an average of 23 hours of live sports per day reaching FOXTEL, Telstra and Optus subscription television customers. FOX SPORTS Australia is distributed via longstanding carriage agreements with pay-TV providers 9 Table of Contents (mainly Foxtel) in Australia and generates revenue primarily through affiliate fees payable under these carriage agreements, as well as advertising sales. FOX SPORTS Australia’s access to compelling local and international sports programming, as well as its production of high-quality original sports content has made it the leading sports programming provider in Australia. FOX SPORTS Australia also operates foxsports.com.au, a leading general sports website in Australia, and offers an IPTV channel and several interactive mobile and tablet applications that extend the reach of its content across multiple new platforms. Prior to November 2012, the Company owned a 50% interest in FOX SPORTS Australia, which it accounted for as an equity investment. In November 2012, the Company acquired CMH, an Australian media investment company that owned the remaining 50% interest in FOX SPORTS Australia. As a result of the CMH acquisition, the Company’s ownership interest in FOX SPORTS Australia increased to 100% and accordingly, the results of FOX SPORTS Australia have been included in a new Cable Network Programming segment since November 2012. FOX SPORTS Australia competes primarily with ESPN, the Free-To-Air (“FTA”) channels and certain telecommunications companies in Australia. Digital Real Estate Services The Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of its 61.6% interest in REA Group, a publicly-traded company on ASX (ASX: REA) that is a leading digital advertising business specializing in real estate services. Established in Melbourne in 1995, REA Group owns and operates Australia’s largest residential property website, realestate.com.au, and Australia’s largest commercial property site, realcommercial.com.au, which together have approximately 20.6 million desktop visits each month based on Nielsen average monthly total traffic ratings for the year ended June 30, 2013. REA Group also operates a market-leading Italian property site, casa.it, and other property sites and apps in Europe and in Hong Kong, and its portfolio of property sites is used by approximately 21,000 real estate agents. REA Group’s Australian operations are comprised primarily of realestate.com.au, realcommercial.com.au and REA Media. Realestate.com.au derives the majority of its revenue via residential monthly advertising subscriptions and advertising listing upgrades from real estate offices. Agents subscribing to the website may upload unlimited listings for sale or rent and purchase a selection of upgrade products to increase the prominence of their listings on the site. Additionally, realestate.com.au offers a variety of targeted products, including brand-building services for real estate agents. Realcommercial.com.au generates revenue through three main sources, agent subscription revenue, agent branding revenue and listing revenue. REA Media offers unique advertising opportunities on both realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, as well as via mobile ad placements. Its revenue is generated primarily from commercial developers and banks / financial institutions which benefit from being able to target REA Group’s substantial audience base. REA Group’s other operations include property sites in Italy, Luxembourg, France, Germany and Hong Kong. Casa.it, with approximately 7.8 million visits each month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2013, is Italy’s leading residential property site. Casa.it’s award winning social media strategy saw it named one of the 10 most popular brands in Italy. Squarefoot.com.hk is REA Group’s English and Chinese language property site in Hong Kong with approximately 345,000 visits per month based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2013. The atHome Group operates atHome.lu and atOffice.lu, leading property sites in the Greater Luxembourg area, as well as sites in France and Germany. AtHome.lu, atOffice.lu, atHome.de and immoRegion.fr had combined visits of 798,000 based on Adobe Omniture SiteCatalyst average monthly site visits for the year ended June 30, 2013. REA Group competes primarily with other real estate websites in its geographic markets, including domain.com.au in Australia. 10 Table of Contents Book Publishing The Company’s Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins Publishers (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, “HarperCollins”), one of the largest English-language consumer publishers in the world based on global revenue, with operations in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and India. HarperCollins publishes and distributes consumer books globally through print, digital and audio formats. Its digital formats include electronic books, also referred to as e-books, for devices such as the Apple iPad, Amazon’s Kindle, Google’s Nexus and Barnes & Noble’s NOOK as well as audio downloads for smartphones and MP3 players. HarperCollins owns over 60 branded imprints, including Avon, Harper, HarperCollins Children’s Publishers, William Morrow and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson, which HarperCollins acquired in July 2012. HarperCollins publishes works by well-known authors such as J.R.R. Tolkien, Paulo Coelho, Rick Warren and Agatha Christie and popular titles such as The Hobbit, Goodnight Moon and To Kill a Mockingbird. Its active print and digital global catalog includes over 50,000 publications and approximately 100,000 SKUs, including various print and digital editions of the same title. HarperCollins publishes fiction and nonfiction, with a focus on general, children’s and religious content. Additionally, in the U.K., HarperCollins publishes titles for the equivalent of the K-12 educational market. HarperCollins is rapidly transitioning from print production to digital with leading e-book offerings. As of June 30, 2013, HarperCollins offered approximately 30,000 e-book titles, which accounted for approximately 19% of global revenues in the quarter (up from approximately 16% in the prior year period). Nearly all of HarperCollins’ titles published in the last four years, as well as the majority of its entire catalog, are available in electronic reader and tablet formats. With the rapid adoption of electronic formats by consumers, HarperCollins is publishing many titles in digital formats before, or instead of, publishing a print edition. For example, through its popular romance imprint, Avon, HarperCollins launched a “digital-first” series which releases one new title per week in the romance category. The series has already generated three New York Times electronic bestsellers since its launch. During fiscal 2013, HarperCollins U.S. had 167 titles on the New York Times bestseller list, with 16 titles hitting number one, including American Sniper by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice, Divergent by Veronica Roth, Insurgent by Veronica Roth, Pete the Cat: Rocking in My School Shoes by Eric Litwin, The Night Before Christmas by Clement C. Moore, The Fallen Angel by Daniel Silva, The 100 by Jorge Cruise, Heaven is For Real by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent, America the Beautiful by Ben Carson with Candy Carson, Beautiful Ruins by Jess Walters, Micro by Michael Crichton and Richard Preston, The One and Only Ivan, by Katherine Applegate, Pete the Cat Saves Christmas by Eric Litwin, Emeraldalicious by Victoria Kann, and The Elite by Kiera Cass. HarperCollins derives its revenue from the sale of print and digital books to a customer base that includes global technology companies, traditional brick and mortar booksellers, wholesale clubs and discount stores, including Amazon, Apple, Barnes & Noble and Tesco. As Harper Collins’ digital products continue to account for more of its business, it expects to benefit from increased profit contribution and improved working capital dynamics due to diminishing physical plant requirements, inventory and returns related to its print business, as well as faster payment for e-books. The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations, including e-book devices sold by Amazon, Apple, Google and Barnes & Noble. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities; competition could also come from new entrants, since barriers to entry in book publishing are low. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. The Company believes HarperCollins is well positioned in the evolving book publishing market with significant size and brand recognition across multiple categories and geographies and as an early adopter of the digital model, where it is an industry leader with approximately 30,000 e-book titles. Furthermore, HarperCollins is a leader in children’s and religious books, categories which have been less impacted by the transition to digital consumption. 11 Table of Contents Other The Other segment includes Amplify, the Company’s digital education business, the Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group, general corporate overhead expenses and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. Amplify In July 2012, the Company launched Amplify, the brand for its digital education business. Amplify is dedicated to improving K-12 education by creating digital products and services that empower teachers, students and parents in new ways. Its products serve more than 200,000 educators and three million students in all 50 states. Amplify is focused on transforming teaching and learning by creating and scaling digital innovations in three areas: • Amplify Insight: Amplify’s successful data and analytics business, which formerly operated under the brand Wireless Generation, commenced operations in 2000 and was acquired in 2010. Amplify Insight provides powerful assessment products and services to support staff and technology development, including student assessment tools and analytic technologies, intervention programs, enterprise education information systems, and professional development and consulting services. Key products include mClassTM, a suite of products that enable teachers to easily and quickly monitor individual and class progression through goals and standards and access detailed analysis, custom grouping and instructional planning tools. • Amplify Learning: Amplify’s nascent digital curriculum business is developing new content in English Language Arts, Science and Math, including software that will combine interactive, game-like experiences with rigorous analytics, all driven by adaptive technologies that respond to individual students’ needs as they evolve. Amplify Learning’s digital curriculum will incorporate the new Common Core State Standards that is expected to be implemented in 45 states beginning with the 2014-2015 school year. Amplify launched pilots of its new digital English and Science curriculum for students in the middle grades during the 2013 fiscal year and is expected to launch additional pilots in fiscal 2014. • Amplify Access: Amplify’s distribution platform business, which is developing new distribution and delivery mechanisms, consists of an open tablet-based distribution platform that will offer curated third-party as well as proprietary curricular and extracurricular content, sophisticated analytic capabilities, a tablet, and 4G connectivity through a subscription-based bundle optimized for the K-12 market to facilitate personalized instruction and enable anywhere, anytime learning. Amplify launched pilots of its new distribution platform for the classroom during fiscal 2013 and began a commercial rollout in fiscal 2014. Amplify’s digital products are or will generally be available on a subscription basis. The Company also expects to market and sell some supplemental print-based materials, as well as instructional and information technology-related services. In addition, while each of Amplify’s products will be available on a stand-alone basis, the Company also anticipates that it will have the ability to cross-sell products between Amplify’s three business areas and offer bundled solutions to its customers. Amplify competes with existing K-12 education publishers and content providers such as Pearson plc and McGraw-Hill Education, large platform companies such as Google, Apple, and Amazon that market their tablet or e-reader products for educational use, as well as a number of smaller content, analytics and distribution platform companies. The Company believes that Amplify’s capabilities across analytics and assessment, content and curriculum and distribution and delivery make it well-positioned to offer schools a unique integrated learning solution. 12 Table of Contents Corporate Strategy and Creative Group The Company’s corporate Strategy and Creative Group was formed to identify new products and services across the Company’s businesses to increase revenues and profitability and to target and assess potential acquisitions and investments. Recent initiatives include the launch of the Company’s BallBall mobile app in Japan, Indonesia and Vietnam, which combines the Company’s rights to exclusive football highlight clips, expert coverage, commentary and analysis from The Times, The Sunday Times and The Sun, as well as the recently announced News Corp Global Exchange, the Company’s new global programmatic advertising exchange that will enable marketers to leverage the Company’s leading online and mobile products and first-party data for real-time bidding. Equity Investments Foxtel The Company and Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company, each own 50% of Foxtel, the largest pay-TV provider in Australia. Foxtel has approximately 2.4 million subscribing households throughout Australia, or over 30% of the country’s population, as of June 30, 2013 through cable, satellite and IPTV distribution. Foxtel delivers more than 200 channels (including standard definition channels, high definition versions of some of those channels, and audio and interactive channels) covering news, sport, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music and children’s programming. Foxtel’s premium content includes FOX SPORTS Australia’s suite of sports channels such as FOX SPORTS 1, FOX SPORTS 2 and FOX SPORTS 3 and TV shows from HBO, FOX and Universal, among others. Foxtel also owns and operates 26 channels, including general entertainment and movie channels, and sources an extensive range of movie programming through arrangements with major U.S. studios. Foxtel’s channels are distributed to subscribers via both Telstra’s hybrid fibrecoaxial cable network and a long-term contracted satellite platform provided by Optus. Foxtel offers limited versions of its services via broadband through Foxtel Play (an Internet television service), the Xbox platform, Telstra’s T-Box platform, select Samsung televisions, a number of Virgin Australia aircraft, and mobile devices and tablets (including iPads and iPhones via Foxtel Go), as well as via the Internet to personal computers. Foxtel customers are also able to access their electronic programming guide via their tablet, mobile devices and personal computers to remotely record programming. Foxtel generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2013, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), Foxtel recorded revenues of $3.2 billion, net income before income taxes of $267 million, net interest expense of $231 million, depreciation and amortization of $441 million, calculated before purchase accounting adjustments, and equity earnings of affiliates and other, net, of $7 million. Foxtel’s EBITDA, which is calculated by excluding interest expense, depreciation and amortization and equity earnings of affiliates and other, net, from net income before income taxes, was $932 million for the year ended June 30, 2013. Management believes that EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of this business for the reasons set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Segment Analysis” with respect to Segment EBITDA. In the year ended June 30, 2013, Foxtel’s average residential recurring subscription revenue per user, or ARPU, was $97 per month (as calculated by Foxtel), and its annualized residential subscriber churn rate based on data for the year ended June 30, 2013 was 14.2% (as calculated by Foxtel). In addition, Foxtel had $2.0 billion of indebtedness outstanding as of June 30, 2013 (excluding $825 million of shareholder loans due to Telstra and the Company, which includes accrued interest payable of $15 million), and paid distributions of $159 million to the Company during the year ended June 30, 2013. In November 2012, the Company’s stake in Foxtel increased from 25% to 50% as a result of the CMH acquisition. The amount included for Foxtel in the Company’s Equity earnings of affiliates was $66 million for the year ended June 30, 2013. 13 Table of Contents The Company and Telstra each have the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of Foxtel. In addition, the Company has the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Foxtel, while Telstra has the right to terminate these officers. Foxtel competes primarily with the three major commercial FTA networks and two major government-funded FTA broadcasters in Australia for subscribers, as well as other pay-TV operators and IPTV providers. Foxtel provides a 200-plus channel selection with premium and exclusive content and a wide array of digital and mobile features that are not available to viewers on the FTA networks. Through innovations such as digital HD channels, the extension of pay-TV programming to mobile devices and the use of DVR and Electronic Program Guide technology, the Company believes Foxtel offers subscribers a compelling alternative to FTA TV and Foxtel’s other competitors. Governmental Regulation General Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the Company’s interests. Australian Media Regulation The Company’s subscription television interests are subject to Australia’s regulatory framework for the broadcasting industry. The key regulatory body for the Australian broadcasting industry is the Australian Communications and Media Authority (“ACMA”). Key regulatory issues for subscription television providers include: (a) anti-siphoning restrictions—currently under the ‘anti-siphoning’ provisions of the Australian Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth), subscription television providers are prevented from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless national and commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 12 weeks before the start of the event or the rights to televise are also held by commercial television licensees who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the Australian population or the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters; (b) the Broadcasting Services Act—this legislation may impact the Company’s ownership structure and operations and restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities including, for example, preventing it from exercising control of a commercial television broadcasting license, a commercial radio license and a newspaper in the same license area; and (c) Convergence Review—on April 30, 2012, the then-Minister for Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy released the Final Report of a comprehensive review of Australia’s communications and media regulation in light of increasing convergence in media platforms. The report covered a number of broad areas, including media ownership laws, media content standards, the ongoing production and distribution of Australian and local content and the allocation of radio communications spectrum. In March 2013, legislation was passed in response to the Convergence Review that, among other things, reduced the license fees payable by FTA networks by 50%. No legislation has yet been introduced removing the prohibition on an FTA network’s signal reaching greater than 75% of the Australian population. Any further changes in Australian media regulations could adversely impact the Company’s Australian businesses. However, the government that commissioned the Convergence Review lost power in the Australian federal election held on September 7, 2013. 14 Table of Contents U.K. Press Regulation On July 13, 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a two-part inquiry into the U.K. press and appointed Lord Justice Leveson as Chairman of the Inquiry. The inquiry was triggered by allegations of illegal voicemail interception at the Company’s former publication, The News of the World. Hearings opened on November 14, 2011 with respect to the first part of the inquiry, and Lord Justice Leveson published his report on November 29, 2012. The report made recommendations on the future of press regulation and governance in the U.K., which have been the subject of debate in the U.K. parliament, as well as discussion both among newspaper groups (including News UK) and the industry and the government. On March 18, 2013, the U.K. Government published a draft Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press which, if granted, would establish a Recognition Panel that would be responsible for recognizing, overseeing and monitoring a new press regulatory body. The new press regulatory body, a majority of the members of which would be independent of the industry, would be responsible for overseeing the U.K. press and would replace the existing Press Complaints Commission. The U.K. Government has also proposed legislation which would ensure that the Royal Charter could only be altered by a two-thirds majority of parliament. In addition to the Royal Charter and establishment of a new regulatory body, rules have been proposed which, if adopted, would result in publishers who do not participate in this new U.K. press regulatory system being potentially liable for exemplary damages in certain cases where such damages are not currently awarded. On April 24, 2013, an alternative proposed form of Royal Charter was published by a group representing a significant majority of the U.K. press, including News UK. This contained many similar provisions but omitted or varied several others, including the requirement for any future alteration to be approved by a two-thirds majority of parliament. While a new regulatory regime is supported by the primary political parties in the U.K. and is likely to be introduced, at this time it remains unclear what precise form the new regime will take and when it will come into force. The new U.K. press regulatory body is likely to, among other things, introduce and oversee a revised press code, require members to implement appropriate internal governance processes and require self-reporting of any failures, provide a complaints handling service, have the ability to require publications to print corrections, have the power to investigate serious or systemic breaches of the press code and be able to levy fines. It may also introduce an arbitration service to resolve claims against publications. Changes may also be made to U.K. data protection legislation. If adopted, the proposed new regulatory regime may impose burdens on the print media, including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., that represent competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance. A date has yet to be set for the second part of the inquiry. Internet In the U.S., the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. In addition, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (“CAN-SPAM”) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or “spam.” Online services provided by the Company may be subject to COPPA and CAN-SPAM requirements. U.S. federal regulators’ interest in issues of privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing. On February 23, 2012, the Obama administration issued a white paper on consumer data privacy that includes a Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights. The Obama administration is convening a multi-stakeholder process to implement the Bill of Rights through industry codes of conduct that would be enforceable by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and State Attorneys General. The Obama administration also announced it would work with Congress to implement these rights through legislation. On March 26, 2012, the FTC released a report 15 Table of Contents on consumer privacy, which sets forth a detailed privacy framework and urges industry to accelerate the pace of adoption of self-regulatory measures, including more widespread adoption of a Do-Not-Track browser mechanism. The report also recommends that Congress consider baseline privacy legislation incorporating the principles articulated in the framework. A number of privacy and data security bills have been introduced in both Houses of Congress that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, data security and breach notification requirements, and cybersecurity. Several Congressional hearings have examined privacy implications for online, offline and mobile data. Some state legislatures have already adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the Internet, including measures relating to privacy, data security and data breaches. The industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles in 2009, which have been implemented by web publishers, online advertisers and online advertising networks. In November 2011, these principles were extended to the use of online consumer data for purposes other than advertising. It is unclear whether these and other industry self-regulatory efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials about the collection of anonymous data online or via mobile applications to serve targeted content and advertising. It is not possible to predict whether proposed privacy and data security legislation will be enacted or to determine what effect such legislation might have on the Company’s business. Foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. In particular, the EU has proposed a new privacy regulation (the “EU Regulation”) that would replace the current Data Protection Directive, would tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of online data and would continue to restrict the trans-border flow of data. European industry has implemented a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the U.S. self-regulatory framework. The proposed EU Regulation will not be effective for at least two or three years and may undergo many changes before it is adopted. It is unclear how the final EU Regulation would affect the Company’s business. The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. Education The availability of funding for K-12 education is affected by changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, as well as changes in the state procurement process. Future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. Intellectual Property The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in newspapers, books, television programming and other content and technologies; trademarks in names and logos; domain names; and licenses of intellectual property rights. In addition, its intellectual property assets include patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services, none of which are material to its financial condition or results of operations. The Company derives value and revenue from these assets through, among other things, print and digital newspaper and magazine subscriptions and sales, the sale, distribution and/or licensing of print and digital books, the sale of subscriptions to its content and information services, the operation of websites and other digital properties and the distribution and/or licensing of its television programming to cable and satellite television services. The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products, services and content and related intellectual property is often 16 Table of Contents difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. Raw Materials As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a regional, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. Employees As of June 30, 2013, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees, of whom approximately 9,000 were located in the U.S., 4,000 were located in the U.K. and 9,000 were located in Australia. Of the Company’s employees, approximately 6,000 were represented by various employee unions. The contracts with such unions will expire during various times over the next several years. The Company believes its current relationships with employees are generally good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report in evaluating the Company and its common stock. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: risks related to the Company’s business, risks related to the Company’s Separation from 21st Century Fox and risks related to the Company’s common stock. Risks Related to the Company’s Business A Decline in Customer Advertising Expenditures in the Company’s Newspaper and Other Businesses Could Cause its Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its newspapers, integrated marketing services and digital media properties. The Company and its affiliates also derive revenues from the sale of advertising on their cable channels and pay-TV programming. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. National and local economic conditions, particularly in major metropolitan markets, affect the levels of retail, national and classified newspaper advertising revenue. Changes in gross domestic product, consumer spending, auto sales, housing sales, unemployment rates, job creation and circulation levels and rates all impact demand for advertising. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective 17 Table of Contents advertisers’ spending priorities. The Company’s advertising revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 declined 7% as compared to the prior year, due in large part to lower advertising revenues at its Australian newspapers as a result of the weaker Australian economy, particularly among consumers, as well as, to a lesser extent, declines in advertising revenues at Dow Jones. These declines were offset, in part, by increased revenues in the Company’s Digital Real Estate Services segment. In addition to economic conditions, other factors such as consolidation across various industries may also reduce the Company’s overall advertising revenue. Demand for the Company’s products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers and ratings points for its cable channels are among the factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates. In addition, newer technologies, including new downloading capabilities via the Internet, digital distribution models for books and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media choices available to audiences. These technological developments may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to advertisers. In addition, the range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising. Consequently, the Company’s digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption. A decrease in advertising expenditures by the Company’s customers, reduced demand for the Company’s offerings or a surplus of advertising inventory could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and assets. Advertising, Circulation and Audience Share May Continue to Decline as Consumers Migrate to Other Media Alternatives. The Company’s businesses face competition from other sources of news, information and entertainment content delivery, and the Company may be adversely affected if consumers migrate to other media alternatives. For example, advertising and circulation revenues in the Company’s News and Information Services segment may continue to decline, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry, including declining newspaper buying by younger audiences and consumers’ increasing reliance on the Internet for the delivery of news and information, often without charge. In recent years, Internet sites devoted to recruitment, automobile sales and real estate services have become significant competitors of the Company’s newspapers and websites for classified advertising sales. As a result, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, the Company’s advertising revenues decreased 10% in the News and Information Services segment as compared to the prior year. In addition, due to innovations in content distribution platforms, consumers are now more readily able to watch Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices, in some cases also without charge, which could reduce consumer demand for the Company’s television programming and pay-TV services and adversely affect both its subscription revenue and advertisers’ willingness to purchase television advertising from the Company. The Company Must Respond to Changes in Consumer Behavior as a Result of New Technologies in Order to Remain Competitive. Technology continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on portable devices and televisions. There is a risk that the Company’s responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a “pay” basis, may not be adopted by consumers. In addition, enhanced Internet capabilities and other new media may reduce the demand for newspapers and television viewership, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. The trend toward digital media 18 Table of Contents may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on the Company’s products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating content. The Company’s failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new products and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on its businesses, asset values and results of operations. The Inability to Renew Sports Programming Rights Could Cause the Revenue of Certain of the Company’s Australian Operating Businesses to Decline Significantly in any Given Period. The sports rights contracts between certain of the Company’s Australian operating businesses, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. As these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. In addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. The loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the Company and could adversely affect its revenues. Upon renewal, the Company’s results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in subscriber and carriage fees and advertising rates. No Assurance of Profitability of Amplify. Many of Amplify’s newer lines of business are still under development. Accordingly, Amplify’s prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as digital education. These risks for Amplify include, but are not limited to, an evolving business model and the management of growth. Amplify must, among other things, develop a customer base for its full range of offerings, including by utilizing the existing customers associated with its data and analytics business, implement and successfully execute its business and marketing strategy, continue to develop and upgrade its software and content offerings, respond to competitive developments, and attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Since the 2010 acquisition of Wireless Generation, the former brand of Amplify’s data and analytics business, now Amplify Insight, and the initiation of the development of the broader business initiatives of Amplify, the Company’s digital education business has recorded a cumulative loss before income taxes of approximately $265 million through June 30, 2013. The portion of this loss recognized in the year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately $163 million. Losses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2014 as a result of continued product development efforts. Significant expenses associated with Amplify’s businesses include salaries, employee benefits and other routine overhead associated with product development. There can be no assurance that Amplify will be successful in addressing these risks or in achieving these goals, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Amplify’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Make Strategic Acquisitions That Could Introduce Significant Risks and Uncertainties. In order to position its business to take advantage of growth opportunities, the Company may make strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits, (3) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, (4) the risk of diverting the attention of the Company’s senior management from the Company’s operations, (5) the risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, (6) the difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, (7) potential future impairments of goodwill associated with the acquired business and (8) in some cases, increased regulation. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with the Company’s existing business, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Global Economic Conditions May Have a Continuing Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. The U.S. and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. The resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the Company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the Company’s business, reduce its advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its newspapers, books, television operations and other consumer products. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company. In particular, the Company has significant exposure to certain Australian business risks, including specific Australian legal and regulatory risks, consumer preferences and competition because it holds a substantial amount of Australian assets. As a result, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by negative developments in the Australian market. Although the Company believes that its capitalization and operating cash flow will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. The Company Does Not Have the Right to Manage Foxtel, Which Means It is Not Able to Cause Foxtel to Operate or Make Corporate Decisions in a Manner that is Favorable to the Company. The Company does not have the right to manage the business or affairs of Foxtel. While the Company’s rights include the right to appoint one-half of the board of directors of Foxtel, the Company is not able to cause management or the board of directors to take any specific actions on its behalf, including with regards to declaring and paying dividends. The Company Faces Investigations Regarding Allegations of Voicemail Interception, Illegal Data Access, Inappropriate Payments to Public Officials, Obstruction of Justice and Other Related Matters and Related Civil Lawsuits. U.K. and U.S. regulators and governmental authorities are conducting investigations relating to voicemail interception, illegal data access, inappropriate payments to public officials and obstruction of justice at its former publication, The News of the World, and at The Sun, and related matters, which are referred to as the U.K. Newspaper Matters. The investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) is directed at conduct that occurred within 21st Century Fox prior to the creation of the Company. Accordingly, 21st Century Fox has been and continues to be responsible for responding to the DOJ investigation. The Company, together with 21st Century Fox, is cooperating with these investigations. The Company has admitted liability in many civil cases related to the voicemail interception allegations and has settled many cases. The Company also announced a private compensation scheme under which parties could pursue claims against it. While additional civil lawsuits may be filed, no additional civil claims may be brought under the compensation scheme after April 8, 2013. The Company is not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the civil claims or criminal matters. From July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2013, the Company incurred aggregate legal and professional fees related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters of $307 million and paid $23 million to claimants for civil settlements. In addition, as of June 30, 2013, the Company has provided for its best estimate of the liability for the claims that have been filed and costs incurred and has accrued $66 million. Certain liabilities recorded by the Company in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 related to matters that will be indemnified by 21st Century Fox as described below. Accordingly, the Company also recorded an indemnification asset of approximately $40 million as of June 30, 2013. 20 Table of Contents In connection with the Separation, the Company and 21st Century Fox agreed in the Separation and Distribution Agreement that 21st Century Fox will indemnify the Company for payments made after the Distribution Date arising out of civil claims and investigations relating to the U.K. Newspaper Matters as well as legal and professional fees and expenses paid in connection with the criminal matters, other than fees, expenses and costs relating to employees (i) who are not directors, officers or certain designated employees or (ii) with respect to civil matters, who are not co-defendants with the Company or 21st Century Fox. In addition, violations of law may result in criminal fines or penalties for which the Company will not be indemnified by 21st Century Fox. 21st Century Fox’s indemnification obligations with respect to these matters will be settled on an after-tax basis. It is possible that these proceedings and any adverse resolution thereof, including any fines or other penalties associated with any plea, judgment or similar result for which the Company will not be indemnified, could damage its reputation, impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements of News Corporation for additional information. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges. As a result of adverse developments in the Company’s industry and challenging economic and market conditions, the Company may recognize impairment charges for write-downs of goodwill and intangible assets, as well as restructuring charges relating to the reorganization of its businesses, which negatively impact the Company’s financial results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, as part of its long-range planning process in preparation for the Separation, the Company adjusted its future outlook and related strategy principally with respect to its News and Information Services business in Australia and secondarily with respect to its News and Information Services businesses in the U.S. These adjustments reflect adverse trends affecting the Company’s News and Information Services segment, including declines in advertising revenue and continued declines in the economic environment in Australia, and resulted in a reduction in expected future cash flows. Consequently, the Company determined that the fair value of these reporting units had declined below their respective carrying values and recorded an impairment charge of approximately $1.4 billion ($1.1 billion, net of tax) in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. In response to these challenging conditions the Company has reorganized its Australian newspaper businesses, and the Company recognized $293 million of restructuring charges in the year ended June 30, 2013, a significant portion of which resulted from its restructuring activities in Australia and the U.K. In accordance with GAAP, the Company will continue to perform an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including newspaper mastheads and distribution networks, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as prevailing conditions in the capital markets or the economy generally, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, or require the Company to engage in any additional business restructurings to address these conditions. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies” for an analysis of the sensitivity of the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets to changes in key assumptions. Any further downward revisions in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in additional impairments for which non-cash charges would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported results of operations. The Company may also incur additional restructuring charges in the future if it is required to further realign its resources in response to significant shortfalls in revenue or other adverse trends. The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by Changes in Governmental Policy and Regulation. Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on its interests. 21 Table of Contents For example, the Company’s Australian operating businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government policy, regulation or legislation, or the application or enforcement thereof, applying to companies in the Australian media industry or to Australian companies in general. This includes: • anti-siphoning legislation which currently prevents pay-TV providers such as Foxtel from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless: • national and commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 12 weeks before the start of the event; • the rights to televise are also held by commercial television licensees who have rights to televise the event to more than 50% of the Australian population; or • the rights to televise are also held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters; and • legislation such as the Broadcasting Services Act that regulates ownership interests and control of Australian media organizations. Such legislation may have an impact on the Company’s ownership structure and operations and may restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities. For example, current media diversity rules would prevent the Company from exercising control of a commercial television broadcasting license, a commercial radio license and a newspaper in the same license area. On April 30, 2012, the then-Minister for Broadband, Communications and Digital Economy released the Final Report of a comprehensive review of Australia’s communications and media regulation referred to as the Convergence Review. In March 2013, legislation was passed in response to the Convergence Review that, among other things, reduced the license fees payable by FTA networks. Certain other legislative changes that would have had a significant impact on the way the Company operates its business and which would have limited its ability to acquire new businesses were proposed by the Australian Government, but withdrawn without becoming law. Any further changes in Australian media regulations could adversely impact the Company’s Australian businesses. However, the government that commissioned the Convergence Review lost power in the Australian federal election held on September 7, 2013. In addition, the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K. are likely to be subject to greater regulation and oversight following the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press, which was established by Prime Minister David Cameron in mid-2011. The inquiry was triggered by allegations of illegal voicemail interception at the Company’s former publication, The News of the World. Lord Justice Leveson, Chairman of the Inquiry, has concluded the first part of the inquiry and published a report in late November 2012 containing various recommendations for greater regulation and oversight of the U.K. press. In response, the U.K. Government has proposed establishing a regulatory body to oversee the U.K. press, a majority of the members of which would be independent of the industry. If adopted, a new regulatory regime may impose burdens on the print media in the U.K., including the Company’s newspaper businesses in the U.K., that represent competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of compliance. The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by Changes in Educational Funding. The Company’s U.S. educational businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. Future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues that result in a decrease in educational funding. Newsprint Prices May Continue to Be Volatile and Difficult to Predict and Control. Newsprint is one of the largest expenses of the Company’s publishing units. During the year ended June 30, 2013, the Company’s average cost per ton of newsprint was approximately 3.0% higher than its historical average annual cost per ton over the past five fiscal years. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile 22 Table of Contents and the consolidation of newsprint mills over the years has reduced the number of suppliers, which has led to increases in newsprint prices. Failure to maintain the Company’s current consumption levels, further supplier consolidation or the inability to maintain the Company’s existing relationships with its newsprint suppliers could adversely impact newsprint prices in the future. The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology That May Be Subject to Disruption or Misuse, Which Could Result in Improper Disclosure of Personal Data or Confidential Information as well as Increased Costs or Loss of Revenue. Network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to the Company’s network management, are important to its business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, could result in a disruption of the Company’s services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. Improper disclosure of such information could harm the Company’s reputation, require it to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or subject it to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Technological Developments May Increase the Threat of Content Piracy and Limit the Company’s Ability to Protect Its Intellectual Property Rights. The Company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy; however, policing unauthorized use of its products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the Company may not in every case prevent infringement by unauthorized third parties. Developments in technology increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. However, protection of the Company’s intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of its rights as defined by applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the Company’s rights, or if existing laws are changed, the Company’s ability to generate revenue from its intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy. The Company’s Business Relies on Certain Intellectual Property and Brands. The Company’s businesses rely on a combination of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other proprietary rights, as well as contractual arrangements, including licenses, to establish and protect their intellectual property and brand names. The Company believes its proprietary trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its continued success and its competitive position. Any impairment of any such intellectual property or brands could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations. The Company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of its operations are conducted in foreign currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. In a variety of the Company’s businesses, it engages the services of employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well 23 Table of Contents as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. Risks Related to the Company’s Separation from 21st Century Fox If the Separation, Together with Certain Related Transactions, Were Ultimately Determined to be Taxable Transactions for U.S. Federal Income Tax Purposes, then the Company, 21st Century Fox and Its Stockholders Could Be Subject to Significant Tax Liability, and the Company may be Required to Indemnify 21st Century Fox for Tax-Related Liabilities Incurred by 21st Century Fox. In connection with the Separation, 21st Century Fox received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock qualified as tax-free under Sections 368 and 355 of the Code except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In addition, 21st Century Fox received an opinion from its tax counsel confirming the tax-free status of the Separation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including the satisfaction of the requirements under Section 368 and 355 of the Code not specifically addressed in the IRS private letter ruling. The opinion of 21st Century Fox’s tax counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there is no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. The private letter ruling and the opinion relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations from the Company and 21st Century Fox regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the Separation. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and U.S. stockholders and certain non-U.S. stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, if the internal reorganization and/or the distribution is ultimately determined to be taxable, 21st Century Fox would recognize gains on the internal reorganization and/or recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of the Company’s common stock distributed to 21st Century Fox’s stockholders on the Distribution Date over 21st Century Fox’s tax basis in such shares. As described below, the Company may in certain circumstances be required to indemnify 21st Century Fox for liabilities arising out of the foregoing. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement that the Company and 21st Century Fox entered into in connection with the Separation, the Company will, in certain circumstances, be responsible for all taxes, including interest and penalties, and tax-related liabilities incurred by 21st Century Fox as a result of actions taken by the Company or any of its subsidiaries after the Separation. Specifically, in the event that the distribution or the internal transactions intended not to be subject to tax were determined to be subject to tax and such determination was the result of certain actions taken, or omitted to be taken, after the Separation by the Company or any of its subsidiaries and such actions (1) were inconsistent with any representation or covenant made in connection with the private letter ruling or opinion of 21st Century Fox’s tax counsel, (2) violated any representation or covenant made in the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, or (3) the Company or any of its subsidiaries knew or reasonably should have expected, after consultation with its advisors, could result in any such determination, the Company will be responsible for any tax-related liabilities incurred by 21st Century Fox as a result of such determination. The Company Could Be Liable for Income Taxes Owed by 21st Century Fox. Each member of the 21st Century Fox consolidated group, which, prior to the Separation, included 21st Century Fox, the Company and 21st Century Fox’s other subsidiaries, is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for periods prior to and including the 24 Table of Contents Separation. Consequently, the Company could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any member of 21st Century Fox’s consolidated group. The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement requires 21st Century Fox to indemnify the Company for any such liability. Disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the IRS in amounts that the Company cannot quantify. The Company Might Not Be Able to Engage in Desirable Strategic Transactions and Equity Issuances Following the Separation Because of Certain Restrictions Relating to Requirements for Tax-Free Distributions for U.S. Federal Income Tax Purposes. The Company’s ability to engage in significant strategic transactions and equity issuances may be limited or restricted after the Separation in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution by 21st Century Fox. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to 21st Century Fox under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of the Company’s stock is acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. To preserve the tax-free treatment to 21st Century Fox of the distribution and the internal transactions in connection with the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement that the Company entered into with 21st Century Fox, the Company is prohibited from taking or failing to take certain actions that may prevent the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Further, for the two-year period following the Separation, without obtaining the consent of 21st Century Fox, the Company may be prohibited from: • approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than a specified percentage of the Company’s common stock, • a merger, • a redemption of equity securities, • a sale or other disposition of certain businesses or a specified percentage of the Company’s assets, • an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire in excess of a specified percentage of the Company’s common stock, or • amending the Company’s organizational documents or taking any other action through stockholder vote or otherwise that affects the relative economic or voting rights of the Company’s outstanding stock. These restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of its business. Moreover, the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement also provides that the Company is responsible for any tax-related liabilities incurred by 21st Century Fox or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distribution or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the Separation by or in respect of the Company or any of its affiliates. The Separation and Distribution Agreement May Restrict the Company From Acquiring or Owning Certain Types of Assets in the U.S. The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has promulgated certain rules and regulations that limit the ownership of radio and television broadcast stations, television broadcast networks and newspapers (the “Broadcast Ownership Rules”) and place commercial restrictions on a cable network programmer in which a cable television operator holds an ownership interest (the “Program Access Rules”). Under the FCC’s rules for determining ownership of the media assets described above, the Murdoch Family Trust’s ownership interest in both the Company and 21st Century Fox following the Separation would generally result in each company’s businesses and assets being attributable to the Murdoch Family Trust for purposes of determining compliance with the Broadcast Ownership Rules and the Program Access Rules. Consequently, the Company’s future 25 Table of Contents conduct, including its acquisition of any newspapers in the same local markets in which 21st Century Fox owns or operates television stations or the Company’s acquisition of an ownership interest in a cable operator, may affect 21st Century Fox’s ability to own and operate its television stations or otherwise comply with the Broadcast Ownership Rules, or may subject 21st Century Fox to the Program Access Rules. Therefore, the Company and 21st Century Fox agreed in the Separation and Distribution Agreement that if the Company acquires, after the Distribution Date, newspapers, radio or television broadcast stations or television broadcast networks in the U.S. and such acquisition would impede or be reasonably likely to impede 21st Century Fox’s business, then the Company will be required to take certain actions, including divesting assets, in order to permit 21st Century Fox to hold its media interests and to comply with such rules. In addition, the Company will be prohibited from acquiring an interest in a multichannel video programming distributor, including a cable television operator, if such acquisition would subject 21st Century Fox to the Program Access Rules to which it is not then subject. This agreement effectively limits the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the Company if such activities or strategic business alternatives implicate the Broadcast Ownership Rules or Program Access Rules and would impede or be reasonably likely to impede 21st Century Fox’s business. The Indemnification Arrangements the Company Entered Into With 21st Century Fox in Connection With the Separation May Require the Company to Divert Cash to Satisfy Indemnification Obligations to 21st Century Fox. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and certain other related agreements, 21st Century Fox agreed to indemnify the Company for certain liabilities, and the Company agreed to indemnify 21st Century Fox for certain liabilities. As a result, the Company could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify 21st Century Fox and its affiliates against certain liabilities to the extent such liabilities result from an action the Company or its affiliates take or from any breach of the Company or its affiliates’ representations, covenants or obligations under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement or any other agreement the Company entered into in connection with the Separation. The diversion of cash that may occur if the Company is required to indemnify 21st Century Fox under these agreements could limit the Company’s ability to grow its businesses or capitalize on acquisition opportunities. Certain Agreements That the Company Entered Into With 21st Century Fox in Connection With the Separation May Limit Its Ability to Take Certain Actions With Respect to the Civil U.K. Newspaper Matters. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, in consideration for 21st Century Fox’s agreement to certain indemnification arrangements, the Company agreed that 21st Century Fox would have the right to control the Company’s defense of civil claims relating to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. In exercising its rights to control the defense of the civil claims relating to the U.K. Newspaper Matters, 21st Century Fox may be guided by interests that are different than or adverse to the Company’s interests and the interests of its stockholders and advocate strategies that the Company’s management would not otherwise adopt. Furthermore, if the Company fails to comply with these control arrangements or does not consent to settlements with respect to such matters proposed by 21st Century Fox, the Company has agreed with 21st Century Fox that it will, at 21st Century Fox’s discretion, forego any indemnification with regard to such or all of these matters. The Company’s inability to take actions with respect to these civil matters without 21st Century Fox’s consent or the Company’s adoption of strategies advocated by 21st Century Fox could damage the Company’s reputation or impair the Company’s ability to conduct its business while the taking of any such action by the Company without 21st Century Fox’s consent in breach of the Company’s agreements could increase its liability exposure with regard to such matters and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements of News Corporation for additional information. There Can Be No Assurance That the Company Will Have Access to the Capital Markets on Terms Acceptable to It. From time to time the Company may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although the Company believes that the sources of capital currently in place will permit the Company to finance its operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, the Company’s access to, 26 Table of Contents and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (1) the Company’s financial performance, (2) the Company’s credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (3) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (4) the state of the economy. There can be no assurance, particularly as a new company that currently has no credit rating, that the Company will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to it. The Company May be Unable to Achieve Some or All of the Benefits That It Expects to Achieve as an Independent, Publicly-Traded Company. By separating from 21st Century Fox, there is a risk that the Company may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than it would have otherwise been while it was still a part of 21st Century Fox. As part of 21st Century Fox, the Company was able to enjoy certain benefits from 21st Century Fox’s operating diversity and access to capital for investments, which benefits are no longer available to the Company after the Separation. As an independent, publicly-traded company, the Company believes that its businesses will benefit from, among other things, sharpened focus on the financial and operational resources of its specific business, allowing the Company’s management to design and implement a capital structure, corporate strategies and policies that are based primarily on the business characteristics and strategic opportunities of its businesses. The Company anticipates this will allow it to respond more effectively to industry dynamics and to create effective incentives for the Company’s management and employees that are more closely tied to its business performance. However, the Company may not be able to achieve some or all of the expected benefits. If the Company fails to achieve some or all of the benefits in the time it expects, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company Has a Very Limited Operating History as an Independent, Publicly-Traded Company, and Its Historical Financial Statements Are Not Necessarily Representative of the Results It Would Have Achieved as an Independent, Publicly-Traded Company and May Not Be Reliable Indicators of Its Future Results. The Company’s historical financial statements included in this Annual Report do not necessarily reflect the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition that it would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that it will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors: • Historically, the Company’s working capital requirements and capital for its general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were provided by 21st Century Fox to the extent the Company did not generate sufficient cash flows to cover its cash requirements. 21st Century Fox historically managed and retained the cash generated by the Company. Following the Separation, 21st Century Fox no longer provides the Company with funds to finance its working capital or other cash requirements. Without the opportunity to obtain capital from 21st Century Fox, the Company may need to access capital markets, and there is no guarantee that capital will be available to the Company or available on terms that are as favorable as those it could have obtained when it was part of 21st Century Fox. • Prior to the Separation, the Company’s business was operated by 21st Century Fox as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. 21st Century Fox historically performed various corporate functions for the Company, including, but not limited to, tax administration, treasury activities, accounting, legal, ethics and compliance program administration, investor and public relations, certain governance functions (including internal audit) and external reporting. The Company’s historical financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from 21st Century Fox for these and similar functions. However, these allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses that the Company would have incurred had it operated as an independent, publicly traded company. • Other significant changes may occur in the Company’s cost structure, management, financing, business operations, personnel needs, tax and structure as a result of its operation as a company separate from 21st Century Fox. The Company benefited from 21st Century Fox’s operating diversity, size and 27 Table of Contents purchasing power, and it will lose such benefits as an independent company. Additionally, the Company will be entering into transactions with 21st Century Fox that did not exist prior to the Separation. The Company’s Accounting and Other Management Systems and Resources May Not be Adequately Prepared to Meet the Financial Reporting and Other Requirements to Which It Is Subject Following the Separation. If the Company Is Unable to Achieve and Maintain Effective Internal Controls, Its Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition Could Be Materially Adversely Affected. The Company’s financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of 21st Century Fox, and the Company believes that its reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, the Company was not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As a result of the Separation, the Company is directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. Further, beginning with the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014, it will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by its independent registered public accounting firm. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on the Company’s management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, the Company may need to upgrade its systems, including information technology, and implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. The Company expects to incur additional annual expenses related to these steps, and those expenses may be significant. If the Company is unable to upgrade its financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, the Company’s ability to comply with its financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the Exchange Act could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain of the Company’s Directors and Officers May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in 21st Century Fox, and Certain of the Company’s Officers and Directors May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of 21st Century Fox, Which May Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities to 21st Century Fox. Certain of the Company’s directors and executive officers own shares of 21st Century Fox’s common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of the Company’s officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of 21st Century Fox, including K. Rupert Murdoch, who serves as the Company’s Executive Chairman and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 21st Century Fox, and Gerson Zweifach, who serves as the Company’s General Counsel and as Senior Executive Vice President and Group General Counsel of 21st Century Fox. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the Company and 21st Century Fox. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between the Company and 21st Century Fox regarding the terms of the agreements governing the internal reorganization, the Separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies, including with respect to the indemnification of certain matters. In addition to any other arrangements that the Company and 21st Century Fox may agree to implement, the Company and 21st Century Fox have agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation acknowledges that the Company’s directors and officers, as well as certain of its stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of the Company and 21st Century Fox), each of which is referred to as a covered stockholder, are or may 28 Table of Contents become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of 21st Century Fox and certain of its affiliates. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that any such overlapping person will not be liable to the Company, or to any of its stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of restricted business opportunities set forth in the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation) to 21st Century Fox instead of the Company. As 21st Century Fox does not have a similar provision regarding corporate opportunities in its certificate of incorporation, the provisions in the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation could result in an overlapping person submitting any corporate opportunities other than restricted business opportunities to 21st Century Fox instead of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The Market Price of the Company’s Stock May Fluctuate Significantly The Company cannot predict the prices at which its common stock may trade. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond its control, including: (1) the Company’s quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; (2) actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; (3) success or failure of the Company’s business strategy; (4) the Company’s ability to obtain financing as needed; (5) changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (6) changes in laws and regulations affecting the Company’s business; (7) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant new business developments or customers; (8) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; (9) changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or the Company’s ability to meet its earnings guidance, if any; (10) the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; (11) results from material litigation or governmental investigations; (12) changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and (13) overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Certain Provisions of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws, Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, Separation and Distribution Agreement and Delaware Law, the Company’s Stockholder Rights Agreement and the Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by the Murdoch Family Trust May Discourage Takeovers and the Concentration of Ownership Will Affect the Voting Results of Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws provide for, among other things: • a dual class common equity capital structure; • stockholders to remove directors only for cause; • a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting; • special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or the holders of not less than 20% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock; • the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal its by-laws; • certain restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and • the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, Preferred Stock and Series Common Stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. 29 Table of Contents These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable. In addition, in connection with the Separation, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights agreement pursuant to which each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock has attached to it a right entitling its holder to purchase from the Company additional shares of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock in the event that a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the then-outstanding Class B Common Stock without approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, subject to exceptions for persons beneficially owning 15% or more of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of May 24, 2013. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company’s voting common stock without the approval of its Board of Directors. Acquisitions of shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as a result of acquiring additional 21st Century Fox Class B Common Stock prior to the Separation or shares representing the Company’s Class B Common Stock in the when-issued trading market or as a result of the Separation will each be included in determining the beneficial ownership of a person, and all such acquisitions made after May 24, 2013 will be taken into account in determining whether a person is an acquiring person under the terms of the stockholder rights agreement. The rights expire on June 28, 2014, except as otherwise provided in the rights agreement. Further, as a result of his ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than one percent of the Company’s outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 38.4% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of September 10, 2013, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust. K. Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of these shares. Also, K. Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns or may be deemed to beneficially own an additional one percent of the Company’s Class B Common Stock and less than one percent of the Company’s Class A Common Stock as of September 10, 2013. Thus, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate less than one percent of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and approximately 39.4% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of September 10, 2013. This concentration of voting power could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition of the Company. Additionally, the ownership concentration of Class B Common Stock by the Murdoch Family Trust increases the likelihood that proposals submitted for stockholder approval that are supported by the Murdoch Family Trust will be adopted and proposals that the Murdoch Family Trust does not support will not be adopted, whether or not such proposals to stockholders are also supported by the other holders of Class B Common Stock. Furthermore, the adoption of the stockholder rights agreement will prevent, unless the Company’s Board of Directors otherwise determines at the time, other potential stockholders from acquiring a similar ownership position in the Company’s Class B Common Stock and, accordingly, could prevent a meaningful challenge to the Murdoch Family Trust’s influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 