Item 1A. RISK FACTORSAn investment in the Company common stock involves risks. The material risks and uncertainties connected with the decision to invest in the Company common stock and with the Company’s business in general are described below. Holders of the Company common stock should carefully read and consider all of these risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in making their investment decisions. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur, the value of the Company common stock that you currently hold could decline significantly, and the current holders of the Company common stock could lose all or part of their respective investments. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s success depends significantly on the Company’s management team, and the loss of the Company’s senior executive officers or other key employees and the Company’s inability to recruit or retain suitable replacements could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and growth prospects. The Company’s success depends significantly on the continued service and skills of the Company’s existing executive management team, particularly David Brooks, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Torry Berntsen, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Daniel Brooks, the Company’s Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer, Brian Hobart, the Company’s Vice Chairman and Chief Lending Officer, Michelle Hickox, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Jan Webb, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Secretary. The implementation of the Company’s business and growth strategies also depends significantly on the Company’s ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective market areas. The Company’s officers may terminate their employment with the Company at any time, and the Company could have difficulty replacing such officers with persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of the Company’s business or who have ties to the communities within the Company’s market areas. The loss of any of the Company’s key personnel could therefore have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and growth. The Company’s strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes the Company to financial, execution and operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The Company has been pursuing a growth strategy that includes the acquisition of other financial institutions in target markets. The Company has completed six acquisitions since 2010, is in the process of consummating the acquisition of BOH Holdings and currently intends to continue its acquisition strategy. Such an acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including the following: •finding suitable markets for expansion; •finding suitable candidates for acquisition; •attracting funding to support additional growth; •maintaining asset quality; •attracting and retaining qualified management; and 19•maintaining adequate regulatory capital. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unknown or contingent liabilities with no available manner of recourse, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company’s organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions or, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that the Company acquires and eliminate redundancies. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company’s management that they would otherwise direct toward servicing existing business and developing new business. Specifically, the process of integrating the operations of acquired banks into Independent Bank’s operations could result in the disruption of Independent Bank’s operations, the loss of customers and employees, and make it more difficult to achieve the intended benefits of these acquisitions. Further, as with any acquisition of banking institutions, business disruptions may occur that may cause the Company to lose customers or may cause such customers to withdraw their deposits from Independent Bank. The realization of the anticipated benefits of the Company’s acquisitions may depend in large part on the Company’s ability to integrate such operations into Independent Bank’s operations, and to address differences in business models and cultures. If the Company is not able to integrate the operations of its acquired banks into Independent Bank’s operations successfully and on a timely basis, some or all of the expected benefits of these applicable acquisitions may not be realized, and the Company’s operating costs may increase significantly and adversely affect the Company’s business and earnings.If the Company does not manage the Company’s growth effectively, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement the Company’s business strategy and successfully conduct the Company’s operations. If the goodwill that the Company recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets the Company acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in the Company’s results of operations in the periods in which they become known. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s goodwill totaled $34.7 million. While the Company has not recorded any such impairment charges since the Company initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not achieve the positive results it desires from the proposed acquisition of BOH Holdings, Inc.The Company has not previously acquired and integrated the operations of another bank that is as proportionately large compared to the Company as will be the case with acquiring and integrating the operations of BOH Holdings and its subsidiary bank, Bank of Houston. Accordingly, it is possible that the process of integrating Bank of Houston’s operations into Independent Bank’s operations could result in the disruption of operations, the loss of Bank of Houston customers and employees, and make it more difficult to achieve the intended benefits of the acquisition. Specifically, inconsistencies between the standards, controls, procedures and policies of Independent Bank and those of Bank of Houston could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with current customers and employees of Bank of Houston if and when the acquisition is completed. Further, as with any acquisition of banking institutions, business disruptions may occur that may cause the Company to lose customers or may cause customers to withdraw their deposits from Bank of Houston prior to the acquisition’s consummation and from Independent Bank thereafter. The realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may depend in large part on the Company’s ability to integrate Bank of Houston’s operations into Independent Bank’s operations, and to address differences in business models and cultures. Although the Company anticipates that it will realize 20certain cost savings as to the Bank of Houston operations and otherwise from the acquisition if and when the Bank of Houston operations are fully integrated into Independent Bank’s operations, it is possible that the Company may not realize all of the cost savings that the Company has estimated it can realize. For example, unanticipated growth in the Company’s business may require the Company to continue to operate or maintain some facilities or support functions that are currently expected to be combined or reduced as a result of the acquisition. If the Company is not able to integrate the operations of Bank of Houston into Independent Bank’s operations successfully and on a timely basis, some or all of the expected benefits of the acquisition may not be realized. Further, upon consummation of the BOH Holdings and Bank of Houston acquisition, the Company will be operating in the Houston metropolitan area financial market. As a result the Company will initially be relying on the management team at the Bank of Houston to provide guidance regarding operating in this new geographic market. Should the Company not be able to retain the services of these key employees after the acquisition or should they be unable to provide the necessary support and guidance for the Company to operate in this new market, the Company may not achieve the results it desires from the acquisition. Further, as this acquisition does not involve as much geographic overlap as the Company’s prior acquisitions of Collin Bank and Live Oak Financial Corp., the Company may be unable to realize all planned operating efficiencies as a result of the acquisition of BOH Holdings’ operations. The completion of the contemplated BOH Holdings merger will result in immediate dilution to holders of the Company’s common stock.As of March 25, 2014, there were 12,592,935 shares of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding. Upon the effectiveness of the BOH Holdings merger, the Company will issue 3,616,060 shares of its common stock, representing approximately 22% of the total issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock post merger. The issuance of the additional 3,616,060 shares of the Company’s common stock in the BOH Holdings merger will cause dilution of the holders of the Company’s common stock, and the additional shares may have an effect on the trading volume in shares of the Company’s common stock immediately following the merger.The Company’s business concentration in Texas imposes risks and may magnify the adverse effects and consequences to the Company resulting from any regional or local economic downturn affecting Texas. The Company conducts its operations almost exclusively in Texas as approximately 96% of the loans in the Company’s real estate loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013, were secured by properties and collateral located in Texas. Likewise, as of such date, approximately 95% of the loans in the Company’s loan portfolio were made to borrowers who live and/or conduct business in Texas. This geographic concentration imposes risks from lack of geographic diversification. The economic conditions in Texas affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects, where adverse economic developments, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans and reduce the value of the Company’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects Texas or existing or prospective borrowers or property values in such areas may affect the Company and the Company’s profitability more significantly and more adversely than the Company’s competitors whose operations are less geographically concentrated. The Company’s small to medium-sized business customers may have fewer financial resources than larger entities to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company focuses its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the north and central Texas area or the Texas market generally and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. If the Company does not effectively manage the Company’s asset quality and credit risk, the Company would experience loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Making any loan involves risk, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt, and risks resulting from changes in economic and market conditions. The Company’s credit risk approval and monitoring procedures may fail to identify or reduce these credit risks, and they cannot completely eliminate all credit risks related to the Company’s loan 21portfolio. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or the Company’s market areas, specifically, experiences material disruption, the Company’s borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral the Company holds may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require additional provisions for loan losses, which would cause the Company’s net income and return on equity to decrease. Because a significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is composed of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing the Company’s real estate loans and result in loan and other losses. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 81% of the Company’s loan portfolio was composed of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral, excluding agricultural loans secured by real estate. As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values in the Company’s market areas could increase the credit risk associated with the Company’s real estate loan portfolio. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of the Company’s markets could increase the credit risk associated with the Company’s loan portfolio, and could result in losses that would adversely affect credit quality, financial condition, and results of operation. Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity in the Company’s market areas could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect the Company’s ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans. Such declines and losses would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and growth prospects. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase the Company’s allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in the Company’s loan portfolio, which may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company establishes its allowance for loan losses and maintains it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on the Company’s analysis of its portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents the Company’s estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to the Company. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in the Company’s market areas. The actual amount of loan losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions within the Company’s markets, as well as changes in the financial condition, cash flows, and operations of the Company’s borrowers, all of which are beyond the Company’s control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.81% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 205.93%. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has previously experienced. The Company may be required to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, either due to management’s decision to do so or requirements by the Company’s banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize future charge-offs. These adjustments may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect the Company’s operations and jeopardize the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. The Company relies on its ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of the Company’s loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that the Company has adequate liquidity to fund the Company’s operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of the Company’s investment securities, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s most important source of funds consists of deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return 22tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income and net income. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, investment maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Company’s equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank. The Company also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize the Company’s activities, or on terms that are acceptable to the Company, could be impaired by factors that affect the Company directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact the Company’s ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet the Company’s expenses, pay dividends to the Company’s shareholders, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying the Company’s borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if the Company fails to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as the Company’s ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. The Company faces significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide the Company with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet the Company’s commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. In addition, the Company, on a consolidated basis, and Independent Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. The Company faces significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on the Company’s financial condition and performance. In the future, the Company may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company fails to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The majority of the Company’s banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, the Company’s earnings are significantly dependent on the Company’s net interest income, the principal component of the Company’s earnings, which is the difference between interest earned by the Company from the Company’s interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid by the Company on the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of the Company’s assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than the Company’s interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, this “gap” will negatively impact the Company’s earnings. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for the Company’s borrowers, which increase the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Further, when the Company places a loan on nonaccrual status, the Company reverses any accrued but unpaid 23interest receivable, which decreases interest income. At the same time, the Company continues to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income. If short-term interest rates remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period, and assuming longer term interest rates fall further, the Company could experience net interest margin compression as the Company’s interest earning assets would continue to reprice downward while the Company’s interest-bearing liability rates could fail to decline in tandem. Such an occurrence would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net interest income and the Company’s results of operations. The Company could recognize losses on securities held in the Company’s securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate. While the Company attempts to invest a significant percentage of its assets in loans (the Company’s loan to deposit ratio was 100.9% as of December 31, 2013), the Company invests a percentage of its total assets (approximately 9.0% as of December 31, 2013) in investment securities as part of its overall liquidity strategy. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of the Company’s securities portfolio was approximately $194 million. Factors beyond the Company’s control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in its portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities are generally subject to decreases in market value when market interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual borrowers with respect to the underlying securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting market interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, the Company may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm the Company’s business. The Company conducts its operations almost exclusively in Texas. Many of the Company’s competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking services within the Company’s market areas. These competitors include banks with nationwide operations, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices, or otherwise solicit deposits, in the Company’s market areas. Increased competition in the Company’s markets may result in reduced loans and deposits, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow its loan and deposit portfolios, and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company has a continuing need for technological change, and the Company may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or the Company may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon the Company’s ability to address the needs of the Company’s customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations as it continues to grow and expand the Company’s market area. The Company may experience operational challenges as it implements these new technology enhancements or products, which could result in the Company not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require the Company to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner. Many of the Company’s larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that the Company will be able to provide, which would 24put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to its customers. System failure or breaches of the Company’s network security could subject the Company to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company uses could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes breakdowns or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to the Company and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with the Company. In addition, advances in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the systems the Company and the Company’s third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s operations could be interrupted if the Company’s third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. The Company depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, the Company receives core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, deposit processing and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or terminate their services, and the Company is unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis, the Company’s operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if the Company is able to replace third party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject the Company to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm the Company’s reputation. Misconduct by the Company’s employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from the Company, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of the Company’s customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject the Company to financial claims for negligence. The Company maintains a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If the Company’s internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans the Company will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which the Company relies is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or the Company may fund a loan that the Company would not have funded or on terms the Company would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses the Company may suffer. 25The Company could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on the Company’s foreclosed real estate assets, which could materially and adversely affect the Company. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is composed of loans collateralized by real estate. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be discovered on the properties that secure the Company’s loans. If the Company acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, the Company could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and materially and adversely affect the Company. IBG Adriatica has engaged in transactions with principals of the Company which, because of the inherent conflict of interest, creates a risk that the terms of such transactions may not be favorable to the Company. Over the past two years, IBG Adriatica has sold several parcels of developed and undeveloped real property and associated interests in common areas in the Adriatica Development to Himalayan Ventures, L.P. Himalayan Ventures is an investment partnership composed of principals of the Company, including Vincent Viola, the Company’s largest shareholder, David Brooks, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Torry Berntsen, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Daniel Brooks, the Company’s Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer, and Doug Cifu, a director of the Company. The purchase price paid for each of these properties was based on the appraised value and was approved by an independent committee of the board of directors of Independent Bank and by the board of directors of the Company, with the interested directors recusing themselves. Banking regulations require that all such transactions be based on the appraised value of the property. While the Company believes that these transactions are consistent with terms that are at least as favorable to the Company as could have been arranged with unrelated third parties, there is inherent risk in these transactions given the conflict of interest arising from the involvement of the Company’s principals in Himalayan Ventures. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Company’s largest shareholder, and certain other officers and directors of the Company, are business partners in business ventures in addition to the Company, which creates potential conflicts of interest and corporate governance issues. Messrs. David Brooks, Viola, Cifu, Berntsen and Daniel Brooks are partners in Himalayan Ventures. A dispute between these individuals in connection with this business venture outside of the Company could impact their relationship at the Company and, because of their prominence within the Company, the Company itself. The obligations associated with being a public company will require significant resources and management attention, which will increase the Company’s costs of operations and may divert focus from the Company’s business operations. The Company has not been required in the past to comply with certain requirements of the SEC, to file periodic reports with the SEC or to have the Company’s consolidated financial statements completed, reviewed or audited and filed within a specified time. Having become a publicly traded company following completion of the Company’s public offering in April 2013, the Company is now required to file periodic reports containing the Company’s consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. As a public company, the Company will also incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. Compliance with these reporting requirements and other rules of the SEC and the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market will increase the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing the Company’s growth strategy, which could prevent the Company from successfully implementing the Company’s strategic initiatives and improving the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made, and will continue to make, changes to the Company’s internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet the Company’s reporting obligations as a public company. However, the Company cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs that it may incur in order to comply with these requirements. The Company anticipates that these costs will materially increase its general and administrative expenses. Risks Related to an Investment in the Company’s Common Stock An active trading market for the Company’s common stock may not be sustained, and you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price at which your common stock was valued. The Company recently completed the initial public offering of the Company’s common stock. Prior to that offering, there was no public market for the Company’s common stock. An active trading market for shares of the Company’s common stock may not be sustained. If an active trading market is not sustained, investors in the Company’s common stock may have difficulty selling their shares of common stock at an attractive price, or at all. An inactive market may also impair the Company’s ability 26to raise capital by selling the Company’s common stock and may impair the Company’s ability to expand the Company’s business by using the Company’s common stock as consideration. The Company is dependent upon Independent Bank for cash flow, and Independent Bank’s ability to make cash distributions is restricted. The Company’s primary tangible asset is Independent Bank. As such, the Company depends upon Independent Bank for cash distributions (through dividends on Independent Bank’s stock) that the Company uses to pay the Company’s operating expenses, satisfy the Company’s obligations (including the Company’s senior indebtedness, or subordinated debentures, and the Company’s junior subordinated indebtedness issued in connection with trust preferred securities), and to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. There are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit Independent Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company. If Independent Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company will not be able to satisfy the Company’s obligations or pay dividends on the Company common stock. Federal and state statutes and regulations restrict Independent Bank’s ability to make cash distributions to the Company. These statutes and regulations require, among other things, that Independent Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend. Further, state and federal banking authorities have the ability to restrict the payment of dividends by supervisory action. The Company’s dividend policy on its common stock may change without notice, and the Company’s future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. The Company may change its dividend policy at any time without notice to the Company’s shareholders. Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as the Company’s board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any declaration and payment of dividends on common stock will depend upon the Company’s earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, the Company’s ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the common stock and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Furthermore, consistent with the Company’s strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs, and other factors, the Company has made, and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends, if any, paid to the Company’s common shareholders. The Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy in relation to the organization’s overall asset quality, level of current and prospective earnings and level, composition and quality of capital. The guidance provides that the Company inform and consult with the Federal Reserve prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in an adverse change to the Company’s capital structure, including interest on the subordinated debentures underlying the Company’s trust preferred securities. If required payments on the Company’s outstanding junior subordinated debentures, held by its unconsolidated subsidiary trusts, are not made or are suspended, the Company will be prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock. The Company’s largest shareholder and board of directors have historically controlled, and in the future will continue to be able to control, the Company. Collectively, as of the date hereof, Messrs. Vincent Viola and David Brooks own 45.9% of the Company’s outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Vincent Viola, the largest shareholder of the Company, currently owns 37.3% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, and David Brooks, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, currently owns 8.6% of the Company’s common stock, each calculated on a fully diluted basis. Further, as of the date hereof, the Company’s other directors and executive officers currently own collectively approximately 12.2% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as a result, these individuals will be able to control the election of its board of directors and otherwise exert controlling influence in the Company’s management and policies. Further, given the large ownership position of these individuals, it will be difficult for any other shareholder to elect members to the Company’s board of directors or otherwise influence the Company’s management or direction. In addition, three of the Company’s directors have close professional and personal ties to Vincent Viola, the Company’s largest shareholder. Doug Cifu is the President and Chief Operating Officer of Virtu Financial, LLC, Mr. Viola’s primary operating entity; Torry Berntsen, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, was formerly Vice Chairman of Virtu Management, LLC, Mr. Viola’s family investment vehicle; and Michael Viola is the son of Vincent Viola. Further, David Brooks, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has a 25 year history of ownership and operation of Independent Bank with Vincent Viola; and he has joint investments with Mr. Viola outside of the Company. Given these close relationships, even though he will not serve on the Company’s board, Mr. Viola has and will continue to have a large influence over the direction and operation of the Company. 27The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which the Company is subject contain certain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s certificate of formation and bylaws contain various provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. These provisions include: •staggered terms for directors; •a provision that directors cannot be removed except for cause; •a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by a majority of the Company’s board of directors, the Chairman or a holder or group of holders of at least 20% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at such special meeting; •a provision that requires the vote of two-thirds of the shares outstanding for major corporate actions, such as an amendment to the Company’s certificate of formation or bylaws or the approval of a merger; and •a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered only at an annual or special meeting of shareholders. The Company’s certificate of formation provides for noncumulative voting for directors and authorizes the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company’s preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. Also, the Company’s certificate of formation prohibits shareholder action by written consent. The holders of the Company’s debt obligations and any shares of the Company’s preferred stock that may be outstanding in the future will have priority over the Company’s common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up and with respect to the payment of interest and preferred dividends. Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, holders of the Company’s common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets until after all of the Company’s obligations to the Company’s debt holders have been satisfied and holders of trust preferred securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. In addition, the Company is required to pay interest on the Company’s subordinated debentures and junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with the Company’s trust preferred securities before the Company pays any dividends on the Company’s common stock. Furthermore, while the Company has no shares of preferred stock outstanding, the Company’s board of directors may also, in its sole discretion, designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock from the Company’s authorized and unissued preferred stock, which may have preferences with respect to common stock in dissolution, dividends, liquidation or otherwise. In connection with the completion of the BOH Holdings merger, the Company currently intends to exchange shares of BOH Holdings Series C preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury for shares of the Company’s preferred stock with generally equivalent rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers. If this exchange occurs, Independent will be obligated to pay the holders of the newly issued preferred stock quarterly dividends. The exchange of the BOH Holdings Series C preferred stock for the Company’s preferred stock is subject to prior review and acceptance by the U.S. Treasury. The Company currently is discussing the exchange process with the U.S. Treasury. While the exact rights and preferences of holders of such newly designated preferred stock have not been determined, it is expected that holders would, among other things, be entitled to quarterly dividends on their shares of such newly designated preferred stock, rank senior to the Company’s common stock with respect to dividend rights and rights upon winding up and termination of the Company, and hold certain rights to consent prior to the Company engaging in certain extraordinary corporate transactions, and, in some instances, would hold the right to designate persons as observers or members of the Company’s board of directors.Prior to April 1, 2013, the Company was treated as an S corporation under Sections 1361 through 1379 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and claims of taxing authorities related to the Company’s prior status as an S corporation could harm the Company. On April 1, 2013, the Company’s prior status as an S corporation status terminated and the Company is now treated as a C corporation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which is applicable to most corporations. As a result, the 28Internal Revenue Service treats the Company as an entity that is separate and distinct from its shareholders. If the unaudited, open tax years in which the Company was an S corporation are audited by the Internal Revenue Service and the Company is determined not to have qualified for, or to have violated, the Company’s S corporation status, the Company would then be obligated to pay back taxes, interest and penalties, and the Company would not have the right to reclaim tax distributions that the Company previously made to the Company’s shareholders during those periods. These amounts could include taxes on all of the Company’s taxable income while the Company was an S corporation. Any such claims could result in additional costs to the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company has entered into tax indemnification agreements with the persons holding shares of the Company’s common stock immediately prior to the consummation of the Company’s initial public offering, including Messrs. Vincent Viola and David Brooks, and the Company could become obligated to make payments to them for any additional federal, state or local income taxes assessed against them for fiscal periods prior to the completion of the Company’s initial public offering. Prior to April 1, 2013, the Company had been treated as an S corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In connection with the Company’s initial public offering, the Company’s S corporation status terminated and the Company is now subject to federal and increased state income taxes. In the event of an adjustment to the Company’s reported taxable income for a period or periods prior to termination of the Company’s S corporation status, the Company’s existing shareholders could be liable for additional income taxes for those prior periods. Therefore, the Company has entered into tax indemnification agreements with the persons holding shares of the Company’s common stock immediately prior to the consummation of the Company’s initial public offering. Pursuant to those agreements, the Company has agreed that upon filing any tax return (amended or otherwise), or in the event of any restatement of the Company’s taxable income, in each case for any period during which the Company was an S corporation, the Company will make a payment to each shareholder on a pro rata basis in an amount sufficient so that the shareholder with the highest incremental estimated tax liability (calculated as if the shareholder would be taxable on its allocable share of the Company’s taxable income at the highest applicable federal, state and local tax rates and taking into account all amounts the Company previously distributed in respect of taxes for the relevant period) receives a payment equal to that shareholder’s incremental tax liability. The Company has also agreed to indemnify the shareholders for any interest, penalties, losses, costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of any claim under the agreements. The Company is an emerging growth company, and the Company cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make the Company’s common stock less attractive to investors. The Company is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and the Company is taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in the Company’s periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if the Company complies with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, the Company may avail itself of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as the Company is an emerging growth company. The Company will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though the Company may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, the Company is deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by nonaffiliates in excess of $700 million). Investors and securities analysts may find it more difficult to evaluate the Company’s common stock because the Company will rely on one or more of these exemptions, and, as a result, investor confidence and the market price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to nonemerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make the Company’s financial statements not comparable with those of another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 29An investment in the Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC, so you could lose some or all of your investment. An investment in the Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described herein. Risks Related to the Business Environment and the Company’s Industry Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase the Company’s costs and impact the Company’s business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. The Company and the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of the Company’s services. If the Company does not comply with governmental regulations, the Company may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on the Company’s businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect the Company’s business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that the Company provides as well as the Company’s costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to the Company’s reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations thereunder affect large and small financial institutions similarly, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise deposit insurance premiums paid by insured deposition institutions. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to “offset the effect” of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10.0 billion. The Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminates certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, although certain trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or less will continue to be includable in Tier 1 capital. This provision also requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. The ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and the Company in particular, is uncertain at this time. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing the revised capital standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly known as “Basel III,” as well as additional capital reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Certain requirements of this final rule first apply to the Company and Independent Bank on January 1, 2015. This final rule, once fully phased in by 2021, requires bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. Federal and state regulatory agencies frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Certain aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, require more oversight or change certain of the Company’s business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose the Company to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require the Company to invest significant management attention 30and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot determine whether additional proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, in recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with the Company’s operations. If these regulatory trends continue, they could adversely affect the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s consolidated results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the Company’s earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted. The Federal Reserve may require the Company to commit capital resources to support Independent Bank. The Federal Reserve, which examines the Company and Independent Bank, requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, the Company could be required to provide financial assistance to Independent Bank if it experiences financial distress. A capital injection may be required at times when the Company does not have the resources to provide it, and therefore the Company may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of the Company’s business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and the Company’s failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which the Company becomes subject as a result of such examinations could materially and adversely affect the Company. Texas and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of the Company’s business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a Texas or federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of the Company’s operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in the Company’s capital, to restrict the Company’s growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against Independent Bank, the Company’s officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Company’s deposit insurance. If the Company becomes subject to such regulatory actions, the Company could be materially and adversely affected. 31The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the Company. Recent insured depository institution failures have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the FDIC in recent years. These developments have caused the FDIC premiums to increase and may result in increased assessments in the future. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amended the Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan and implemented certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective April 1, 2011, the assessment base is determined using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity rather than the previous assessment base of adjusted domestic deposits. The new assessment rates, calculated on the revised assessment base, generally range from 2.5 to 9.0 basis points for Risk Category I institutions, 9.0 to 24.0 basis points for Risk Category II institutions, 8.0 to 33.0 basis points for Risk Category III institutions, and 30.0 to 45.0 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. The new assessment rates were calculated for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 and were reflected in invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. The final rule provides the FDIC’s board with the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted on February 7, 2011 without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. An increase in the assessment rates could materially and adversely affect the Company. The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the creditworthiness and liquidity of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or customer. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on commercial demand deposits could increase the Company’s interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions were able to offer interest on commercial demand deposits to compete for customers. The Company’s interest expense would increase and the Company’s net interest margin could decrease if the Company begins offering interest on commercial demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company faces a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the Treasury to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the Company’s policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that the Company has already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, the Company would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on the Company’s ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of the Company’s business plan, including the Company’s acquisition plans, which would negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for the Company. 32There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of the Company’s voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of the Company’s directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of the Company’s company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Accordingly, prospective investors need to be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of the Company’s common stock. These provisions effectively inhibit certain mergers or other business combinations, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.