Item 1A. Risk Factors” such as: • A reduction in the supply of grapes and bulk wine available to us from the independent grape growers and bulk wine suppliers could reduce our annual production of wine. • We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. • We face significant competition which could adversely affect our profitability. • Because a significant amount of our business is made through our direct to retailer partners, any change in our relationships with them could harm our business. • The loss of Mr. Hurst, Mr. Forgue, Ms. Lambrix, Mr. Dolan or other key employees would damage our reputation and business. • A reduction in our access to/or an increase in the cost of the third-party services we use to produce our wine could harm our business. • The terms of our credit facility with Bank of the West may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. • Because our existing owners have retained significant control over Truett-Hurst, new investors will not have as much influence on corporate decisions as they would if control were less concentrated. • Many of our transactions are with related parties, including our founders, executive officers, principal stockholders and other related parties, and present conflicts of interest. • Several of our executive officers and key team members have outside business interests which may create conflicts of interest. • We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position and brand equity. • We are controlled by our existing owners, whose interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. • We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Business A reduction in the supply of grapes and bulk wine available to us from the independent grape growers and bulk wine suppliers could reduce our annual production of wine. We rely on annual contracts with independent growers to purchase substantially all of the grapes used in our wine production. Our business would be harmed if we are unable to contract for the purchase of grapes at acceptable prices from these or other suppliers in the future. The terms of many of our purchase agreements also constrain our ability to discontinue purchasing grapes in circumstances where we might want to do so. Some of these agreements provide that either party may terminate the agreement prior to the beginning of each harvest year. We depend on bulk wine suppliers for the production of several of our wines, particularly our direct to retailer designated labels. We have contracts with some wineries to provide us with bulk wine for a four-year term at specified prices and terms. These contracts provide us with limited growth opportunities for the next two years. Further growth beyond our current grape and wine contracts depends on the availability and pricing of bulk wine that meet our quality standards. The price, quality and available quantity of bulk wine has fluctuated in the past. It is possible that we will not be able to purchase bulk wine of acceptable quality at acceptable prices and quantities in the future, which could increase the cost or reduce the amount of wine we produce for sale. This could reduce our sales and profits. Two vendors are considered our largest suppliers of bulk wine and it is possible that we will not be able to source wine from these or comparable suppliers in the future, which could reduce our annual production of wine and harm our sales and profits. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have had a limited number of quarters or years of profitability and historically raised additional capital to meet our growth needs. We expect to make significant future investments in order to develop and expand our business, which, we believe, will result in additional sales, marketing and general and administrative expenses that will require increased sales to recover these additional costs. As a public company we expect to incur legal, accounting, and other administrative expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of our sales and marketing expenses as well as these increased expenditures, we must generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, this growth may not be sustainable. We may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our products and increasing competition, as well as the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown factors in the expansion of our business. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and, we may incur significant losses in the future, and this could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. We face significant competition which could adversely affect our profitability. The wine industry is intensely competitive. Our wines compete in several super-premium and ultra-premium wine market segments with many other super-premium and ultra-premium domestic and foreign wines, with imported wines coming from the Burgundy and Bordeaux regions of France, as well as Italy, Chile, Argentina, South Africa and Australia. Our wines also compete with other alcoholic and, to a lesser degree, non-alcoholic beverages, for shelf space in retail stores and for marketing focus by our independent distributors, many of which carry extensive brand portfolios. A result of this intense competition there has been and may continue to be upward pressure on our selling and promotional expenses. In addition, the wine industry has experienced significant consolidation. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Our sales may be harmed to the extent we are not able to compete successfully against such wine or alternative beverage producers’ costs. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to successfully compete with our current competitors or that we will not face greater competition from other wineries and beverage manufacturers. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because a significant amount of our business is made through our direct to retailer partners, any change in our relationship with them could harm our business. Our agreements with our direct retail partners are informal and therefore subject to change. If one or more of our direct retail partners chose to purchase fewer of our products, or we were forced to reduce the prices at which we sell our products to these partners, our sales and profits would be reduced and our business would be harmed. The loss of Mr. Hurst, Mr. Forgue, Ms. Lambrix, Mr. Dolan or other key employees or personnel would damage our reputation and business. We believe that our success largely depends on the continued employment of a number of our key employees, including Phil Hurst, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul Forgue, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer, Virginia Lambrix, our Winemaker, Paul Dolan, one of our co-founders and Kevin Shaw, an independent contractor who serves as our Creative Director. Any inability or unwillingness of Mr. Hurst, Mr. Forgue, Ms. Lambrix, Mr. Dolan, Mr. Shaw or other key management team members to continue in their present capacities could harm our business and our reputation. A reduction in our access to/or an increase in the cost of, the third-party services we use to produce our wine could harm our business. We utilize capacity at several third-party facilities for the production of a significant portion of our wines. Our inability in the future to use these or alternative facilities, at reasonable prices or at all, could increase the cost or reduce the amount of our production, which could reduce our sales and our profits. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these facilities, and they may provide services to our competitors at a price above what we are willing to pay. The activities conducted at outside facilities include crushing, fermentation, storage, blending and bottling. Our reliance on these third parties varies according to the type of production activity. As production increases, we must increasingly rely upon these third-party production facilities. Reliance on third parties will also vary with annual harvest volumes. In addition, we have limited control over the quality control and quality assurance of these third-party manufacturers. If our suppliers are not able to deliver products that satisfy our requirements, we may be forced to seek alternative providers for these goods and services, which may not be available at the same price, or at all, which would harm our financial results. The terms of our credit facility with Bank of the West may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our senior credit facility includes a number of customary restrictive covenants that could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. The credit facility contains usual and customary covenants, including, without limitation: • limitation on incurring senior indebtedness • limitation on making loans and advances; • limitation on investments, acquisitions and capital expenditures; • limitation on liens, mergers and sales of assets; and • limitations on activities of Truett-Hurst. In addition, the credit facility contains negative and financial covenants, including, without limitation, a minimum current assets to current liabilities ratio (measured quarterly), debt to effective tangible net worth ratio (measured quarterly) and debt service coverage ratio (measured annually). 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS As of June 30, 2014, we advised the bank that we may fail to be in compliance with a debt service coverage ratio. In order to avoid a failure to comply with that covenant, in advance of any default, the bank provided a waiver of compliance. For additional information related to our bank loans, see Part II, Item 8, Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our senior credit facility will depend on our future operating performance and, in addition, may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet them. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders or agree with our lenders to an amendment of the facility's terms to maintain compliance under such facility. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our senior credit facility is accelerated, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance, and we may be required to limit our activities. Because our insiders retain significant control over Truett-Hurst, new investors will not have as much influence on corporate decisions as they would if control were less concentrated. Our existing insiders at June 30, 2014, control 55% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and 100% of the voting power of our outstanding Class B common stock. Prior to conversion of their LLC Units, each holder of LLC Units holds a single share of our Class B common stock. Although these shares have no economic rights, they allow our existing owners to exercise voting power over Truett-Hurst, Inc., the managing member of the LLC, at a level that is consistent with their overall equity ownership of our business. As a result, our existing owners and their respective affiliates have significant influence in the election of directors and the approval of corporate actions that must be submitted for a vote of stockholders. In addition, certain existing owners, as well as certain trusts and other entities under their control, have entered into guarantee agreements in connection with our credit facility with Bank of the West. For additional information related to our bank guarantees, see Part II, Item 8, Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The interests of these affiliates may conflict with the interests of other stockholders, and the actions they take or approve may be contrary to those desired by the other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring an acquisition of Truett-Hurst by a third party. Many of our transactions are with related parties, including our founders, executive officers and other related parties, and present conflicts of interest. We routinely source bulk wine and grapes for our products from vineyards owned by our founders, executive officers, and principal stockholders. The interests of these affiliates in such transactions may be contrary to those desired by stockholders. Although we intend to put in place policies related to mitigating the risk associated with such transactions, stockholders may be harmed by self-dealing with affiliates and our loss of corporate opportunity. In addition, from time to time we enter into transactions for goods and services with entities in which our executive officers, directors and/or affiliates have interests, as further described under Part II, Item 8, Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies — Related Party,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also enter into grape and bulk wine purchase agreements from time to time with entities in which our executives and/or founders have financial interests. We have entered into such arrangements with: • Ghianda Rose Vineyard, which is owned by Diana Fetzer, wife of Paul E. Dolan, III a member of our board of directors. • Gobbi Street Vineyards, which is partly owned by Diana Fetzer, and Paul E. Dolan, III’s daughter, Nya Kusakabe. • Mendo Farming Company, which is managed by Heath E. Dolan and owned by the following members: (i) Daniel A. Carroll and Stasia Obremskey, as trustees of the Carroll-Obremskey Trust 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Dated April 5, 1996 (the “Carroll-Obremskey”) (33.333% interest); (ii) Paul E. Dolan III, as trustee of The Dolan 2003 Family Trust Dated June 5, 2003 (the “Dolan 2003 Trust”) (30.334% interest); (iii) Peter E. Dolan (17.333% interest); (iv) Heath E. Dolan and Robin A. Dolan, as trustees of The Dolan 2005 Family Trust Dated August 24, 2005 (the “Dolan 2005 Trust”) (9.500% interest); and (v) Zachary Y. Schat and Melissa Schat, as trustees of The Zachary Schat Trust U/D/T Dated September 1, 2004 (the “Schat Trust”) (9.500% interest). Peter E. Dolan is the brother of Paul E. Dolan, III. • Dark Horse Farming Company, which is owned Paul E. Dolan III (50%), Heath E. Dolan (25%) and Jason Dolan (25%). Paul E. Dolan III and Heath E. Dolan are directors of the LLC and Truett-Hurst, Inc. Jason Dolan is the brother of Heath E. Dolan. We believe these arrangements reflect substantially the same market terms we would receive in transactions with unaffiliated third parties. However, if we fail to receive market terms for these transactions or other similar transactions in the future, our profits could be reduced. A failure of one or more of our key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on information technology (“IT”) systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, hardware (including laptops and mobile devices), software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist us in the management of our business. The various uses of these IT systems, networks, and services include, but are not limited to: hosting our internal network and communication systems; ordering and managing materials from suppliers; supply/demand planning; production; shipping product to customers; hosting our branded websites and marketing products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing, and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans, and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage our business. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated cyber-crime pose a potential risk to the security of our IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. If the IT systems, networks, or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or other sensitive information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely affect our business operations and/or financial condition. In addition, such events could result in unauthorized disclosure of material confidential information, and we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, our employees, customers, suppliers or consumers. In any of these events, we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and IT systems. If we are unable to maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy, and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”). We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, and as such we may elect to avail ourselves of the certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, which we refer to as the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act.” 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Several of our executive officers and key team members have outside business interests that may create conflicts of interest. Several of our executive officers and affiliates have their own vineyards or wineries. Although these executives and key team members are committed to devoting their attention to our business, they may devote time to outside interests that do not benefit our stockholders. If our executives and key team members fail to devote sufficient time to the management of our business, our sales and profits could be reduced. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position and brand equity. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We have staked out a reputation for innovation and we have introduced new product innovations, including, for example, our evocative “wine wraps,” the world’s first paper bottle and our proprietary square bottle. We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly-developed brands and products. We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. A reduction in consumer demand for premium wines could harm our business. There have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of alcoholic beverages in the United States and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including a general decline in economic conditions, increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving, a trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products, the increased activity of anti-alcohol consumer groups and increased federal, state or foreign excise and other taxes on alcoholic beverage products. The competitive position of our products could also be affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service levels to customers. Changes in consumer spending could have a negative impact on our financial condition and business results. Wine sales depend upon a number of factors related to the level of consumer spending, including the general state of the economy, federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment expenses under federal and state tax laws, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Changes in consumer spending in these and other areas can affect both the quantity and the price of wines that customers are willing to purchase at restaurants or through retail outlets. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our products, limitations on our ability to increase prices and increased levels of selling and promotional expenses. This, in turn, may have a considerable negative impact upon our sales and profit margins. The market price of our stock may fluctuate due to seasonal fluctuations in our wine sales, operating expenses and net income. We experience seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in sales, operating expenses and net income. Generally, the second and third quarters of our fiscal year have lower sales volumes than the first and fourth quarters. We have managed, and will continue to manage, our business to achieve our long-term objectives. In doing so, we may make decisions that we believe will enhance our long-term profitability, even if these decisions may reduce quarterly earnings. These decisions include the timing of the release of our wines for sale, our wines’ competitive positioning and the grape and bulk wine sources we use to produce our wines. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Bad weather, drought, plant diseases and other factors could reduce the amount or quality of the grapes available to produce our wines. A shortage in the supply of quality grapes may result from the occurrence of any number of factors which determine the quality and quantity of grape supply, such as weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, pruning methods, the existence of diseases and pests, and the number of vines producing grapes, as well as the level of consumer demand for wine. Any shortage could cause an increase in the price of some or all of the grape varieties required for our wine production and/or a reduction in the amount of wine we are able to produce, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. Recent examples of events affecting supply include the frost in 2008 that significantly impacted the amount of grapes harvested in Mendocino County, the frost of 2011 that had a significant impact on the crop size in Paso Robles and the widespread drought which impacted parts of the United States during 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 and 2014 was considered the worst in many years. Currently 100% of the state of California is now classified as being in one of the three worst levels of drought which range from abnormally dry, moderate drought, severe drought, extreme drought and exceptional drought. Factors that reduce the quantity of grapes may also reduce their quality, which in turn could reduce the quality or amount of wine we produce. Deterioration in the quality of our wines could harm our brand name and a decrease in our production could reduce our sales and profits. Adverse public opinion about alcohol may harm our business. While a number of research studies suggest that moderate alcohol consumption may provide various health benefits, other studies conclude or suggest that alcohol consumption has no health benefits and may increase the risk of stroke, cancer and other illnesses. An unfavorable report on the health effects of alcohol consumption could significantly reduce the demand for wine, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. In recent years, activist groups have used advertising and other methods to inform the public about the societal harms associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages. These groups have also sought, and continue to seek, legislation to reduce the availability of alcoholic beverages, to increase the penalties associated with the misuse of alcoholic beverages, or to increase the costs associated with the production of alcoholic beverages. Over time, these efforts could cause a reduction in the consumption of alcoholic beverages generally, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. Contamination of our wines would harm our business. Because our products are designed for human consumption, our business is subject to hazards and liabilities related to food products, such as contamination. A discovery of contamination in any of our wines, through tampering or otherwise, could result in a recall of our products. Any recall would significantly damage our reputation for product quality, which we believe is one of our principal competitive assets, and could seriously harm our business and sales. Although we maintain insurance to protect against these risks, we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, and this insurance may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. A decrease in wine score ratings by important rating organizations could have a negative impact on our ability to create greater demand and pricing. Many of our brands are issued ratings or scores by local and national wine rating organizations, and higher scores usually translate into greater demand and higher pricing. Although some of our brands have been highly rated in the past, and we believe our farming and winemaking activities are of a quality to generate good ratings in the future, we have no control over ratings issued by third parties which may not be favorable in the future. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Increased regulatory costs or taxes would harm our financial performance. The wine industry is regulated extensively by the Federal Tax and Trade Bureau and state and local liquor authorities and State of California environmental agencies. These regulations and laws dictate various matters, including: • Excise taxes; • Licensing requirements; • Trade and pricing practices; • Permitted distribution channels; • Permitted and required labeling; • Advertising; • Relationships with distributors and retailers; and • Air quality, storm water and irrigation use. Recent and future zoning ordinances, environmental restrictions and other legal requirements may limit our plans to expand production capacity, as well as any future development of new vineyards and wineries. In addition, federal legislation has been proposed that could significantly increase excise taxes on wine. Other federal legislation has been proposed which would prevent us from selling wine directly through the mail. This proposed legislation, or other new regulations, requirements or taxes, could harm our business and operating results. Future legal or regulatory challenges to the wine industry could also harm our business and impact our operating results. Prompted by growing government budget shortfalls and public reaction against alcohol abuse, Congress and many state legislatures are considering various proposals to impose additional excise taxes on the production and sale of alcoholic beverages, including table wines. Some of the excise tax rates being considered are substantial. The ultimate effects of such legislation, if passed, cannot be assessed accurately since the proposals are still in the discussion stage. Any increase in the taxes imposed on table wines can be expected to have a potentially adverse impact on overall sales of such products. However, the impact may not be proportionate to that experienced by producers of other alcoholic beverages and may not be the same in every state. An increase in the cost of energy or the cost of environmental regulatory compliance could affect our profitability. We have experienced increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance, including fees, licenses and the cost of capital improvements to our operating facilities in order to meet environmental regulatory requirements. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices. In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or in connection with historical activities of businesses we acquire. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants at our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our projections or otherwise have an adverse effect upon our business reputation, financial condition or results of operations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business, operations or financial performance, and water scarcity or poor water quality could negatively impact our production costs and capacity. Our business depends upon agricultural activity and natural resources. There has been much public discussion related to concerns that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Severe weather events and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our agricultural raw materials such as grapes. Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase the cost of goods for our products. Severe weather events or changes in the frequency or intensity of weather events can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers and consumers. Water is essential in the production of our products. The quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of grapes and our ability to operate our business. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and if climate patterns change and droughts become more severe, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality that may affect our production costs or impose capacity constraints. With California facing one of the most severe droughts on record, Governor Brown declared a drought State of Emergency in January and directed state officials to take all necessary actions to prepare for water shortages. Such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters, including earthquakes or fires, could destroy our facilities or our inventory. We must store our wine in a limited number of locations for a period of time prior to its sale or distribution. Any intervening catastrophes, such as an earthquake or fire, that result in the destruction of all or a portion of our wine would result in a loss of our investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, that wine. Such a loss would seriously harm our business and reduce our sales and profits. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Truett-Hurst, Inc.’s only material asset is its interest in the LLC, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from the LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our controlling member equity interest in the LLC. We have no independent means of generating revenue. We will cause the LLC to make distributions to its unit holders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of its financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with our pre-IPO owners that provides for the payment by Truett-Hurst Inc. to these parties of 90% of the benefits, if any, that Truett-Hurst Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or distributions to Truett-Hurst Inc. by H.D.D. LLC are not sufficient to permit Truett-Hurst Inc. to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid taxes. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon the continued ownership of us by the counterparties to the tax receivable agreement. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are controlled by our existing owners, whose interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. As of June 30, 2014, our existing owners control 55% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and 100% of the voting power of our outstanding Class B common stock. Because the LLC members hold their ownership interest in our business through the LLC, rather than through the public company, these existing owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, our existing owners may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement that we entered in to, and whether and when we should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate the obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these existing owners' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our affiliates continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of Truett-Hurst, Inc. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under the NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and need not comply with certain requirements, including the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and the requirements that our compensation and nominating and governance committees be composed entirely of independent directors. We utilize these exemptions, and as a result, do not have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and nominating and governance committees does not consist entirely of independent directors, and such committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. We will be required to pay the counterparties to the tax receivable agreement for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with current exchanges, future purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and related transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. We entered into a tax receivable agreement (“TRA”) with our existing owners which provides for the payment by us to our existing owners of 90% of the benefits, if any, that we are deemed to realize as a result of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our exchanges of LLC Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. We expect the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement may be substantial. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if distributions to us by the LLC are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after we have paid taxes. For example, we may have an obligation to make tax receivable agreement payments for a certain amount while receiving distributions from the LLC in a lesser amount, which would negatively affect our liquidity. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon our existing owners' continued ownership of us. We are required to make a good faith effort to ensure that we have sufficient cash available to make any required payments under the tax receivable agreement. The operating agreement of the LLC requires the LLC to make “tax distributions” which, in the ordinary course, will be sufficient to pay our actual tax liability and to fund required payments under the tax receivable agreement. If for any reason the LLC is not able to make a tax distribution in an amount that is sufficient to make any required payment under the tax receivable agreement or we otherwise lack sufficient funds, interest would accrue on any unpaid amounts at LIBOR plus 500 basis points until they are paid. In the event that we and an exchanging LLC Unit holder are unable to resolve a disagreement with respect to the tax receivable agreement, we are required to appoint either an expert in the relevant field or an arbitrator to make a determination, depending on the matter in dispute. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We recorded deferred tax assets of $3.0 million related to the exchange of 0.9 million LLC units for an equal amount of THI Class A common stock. We recorded a $2.9 million long-term liability due to LLC unit holders who converted their units to shares which represents 90% of the estimated tax benefits and $0.3 million for the difference in the recorded deferred tax asset and computed TRA liability and recorded as an adjustment to equity. Additionally, we recorded a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets for $3.0 million as it was determined that it was more likely than not that the tax benefits would not be realized which resulted in corresponding adjustments to the TRA liability and equity as mentioned above. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement to our existing owners may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, or if, at any time, Truett-Hurst elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, Truett-Hurst’s (or its successor's) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired LLC Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayer would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. As a result, (i) we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and (ii) if we elect to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits, and this upfront payment may be made years in advance of the actual realization of such future benefits. Upon a subsequent actual exchange, any additional increase in tax deductions, tax basis and other benefits in excess of the amounts assumed at the change in control will also result in payments under the tax receivable agreement. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement. Payments under the tax receivable agreement are based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, Truett-Hurst will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the benefits that Truett-Hurst actually realizes in respect of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our exchanges of LLC Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, may be the only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock. Even if we decide in the future to pay any dividends, Truett-Hurst Inc. is a holding company with no independent operations of its own except its controlling member equity interest in the LLC. As a result, Truett-Hurst Inc. depends on H.D.D. LLC and its affiliates for cash to pay its obligations and make dividend payments. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of H.D.D. LLC and its affiliates for any reason could limit or impair its ability to pay cash distributions or other distributions to us. In addition, our ability to pay dividends in the future is dependent upon our receipt of cash from H.D.D. LLC and its affiliates. H.D.D. LLC and its affiliates may be restricted from sending cash to us by, among other things, law or provisions of the documents governing our existing or future indebtedness. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS If securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrades our Class A common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. The trading price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the shares of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than prices paid by investors, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause investors to lose part or all of their investment in shares of our common stock. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above the price you originally paid. In the past years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional Class A common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise. As of June 30, 2014, we have an aggregate of 3.6 million shares of Class A common stock issuable, including approximately 3.2 million shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of outstanding LLC Units and 0.4 million shares reserved for issuance under our 2012 Incentive Plan. See Part II, Item 8, Note 12, “Stock-based Compensation” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of Class A common stock and restricted stock rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion. Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our 2012 Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by then existing holders of our Class A common stock. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations that affect public companies, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. As a public company and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. In addition, our management team will also have to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will not be required to comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company.” For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years unless we no longer qualify for such status prior to that time. After we are no longer an emerging growth company, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with those requirements applicable to companies that are not emerging growth companies. Reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. As an “emerging growth company”, we take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 