ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRISK FACTORSRisks Related to Our BusinessWe face significant competition in our industry, which could cause us to lose market share, lower prices, or increase advertising and promotional expenditures. Our success also depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes.The food products business is highly competitive. Numerous brands and products compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, trade promotion, consumer promotion, customer service, and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including divisions, subdivisions, or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources available to them, and may be substantially less leveraged than Pinnacle. In addition, Private Label is a significant competitor, particularly in the frozen vegetables, shelf-stable pickles, table syrup, frozen and refrigerated bagels, and pie/pastry fruit fillings categories. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies and Private Label. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing and advertising expenditures, or increase the use of discounting or promotional campaigns, each of which would materially and adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability.Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. There are inherent marketplace risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. If we do not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, our sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or are unable to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. In addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in our consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. As such, we must be successful in developing innovative products across a multitude of product categories. Finally, if we fail to rapidly develop products in faster-growing and more profitable categories, we could experience reduced demand for our products, or fail to expand margins.We are also subject to the effect that the overall economic conditions have upon consumer sentiment and retail sales.15Table of ContentsIf we lose one or more of our major customers, or if any of our major customers experience significant business interruption, our results of operations could be adversely affected.We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. Wal-Mart and its affiliates are our largest customers and represented approximately 26% of net sales in fiscal year 2013 and 25% of net sales in each of the fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. Cumulatively, including Wal-Mart, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 60% of net sales in each of fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011.We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our major customers. The loss of one or more major customers, a material reduction in sales to these customers as a result of competition from other food manufacturers, or the occurrence of a significant business interruption of our customers’ operations would result in a decrease in our revenues, operating results, and earnings and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.In addition, as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more sophisticated, our retail customers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. If we fail to use our sales and marketing expertise to maintain our category leadership positions to respond to these trends, or if we lower our prices or increase promotional support of our products and are unable to increase the volume of our products sold, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected.For the manufacturing, co-packing and distribution of many of our products, we primarily rely on single source providers where a significant disruption in a facility or loss of arrangements could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.With the exception of our Birds Eye frozen vegetable products which are produced in two facilities (Waseca, Minnesota and Darien, Wisconsin, which has approximately three times the production capacity of the Waseca location), none of our products are produced in significant amounts at multiple manufacturing facilities or co-packers. In addition, in connection with the Wish-Bone acquisition, Unilever has agreed to continue to manufacture certain products for approximately eighteen months following the consummation of the acquisition (with an option to extend for an additional six months) to enable us to transition the manufacturing of Wish-Bone into an existing Pinnacle facility. Significant unscheduled downtime at any of our facilities or co-packers due to equipment breakdowns, power failures, natural disasters, or any other cause could materially adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely upon co-packers for our Duncan Hines cake mixes, brownie mixes, specialty mixes, frosting products and a limited portion of our other manufacturing needs. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we may not be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. On January 29, 2014, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the largest Duncan Hines co-manufacturing business located in Centralia, Illinois from Gilster Mary Lee Corporation. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2014.We sell a majority of our products in the United States and Canada through a combination of a direct and broker network. Our business could suffer disruption if either of our major United States or Canada brokers were to default in the performance of their obligations to perform brokerage services or fail to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade.We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the price and supply of food ingredients, packaging materials, and freight.The prices of the food ingredients, packaging materials and freight are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to, among other things, changes in supply and demand of crops or other commodities, fuel prices and government-sponsored agricultural and livestock programs. The sales prices to our customers are a delivered price. Therefore, changes in our input costs could impact our gross margins. Our ability to pass along higher costs through price increases to our customers is dependent upon competitive conditions and pricing methodologies employed in the various markets in which we compete. To the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to lower-priced Private Label or other value offerings which may adversely affect our results of operations.We use significant quantities of sugar, cucumbers, broccoli, corn, peas, green beans, flour (wheat), poultry, seafood, vegetable oils, shortening, meat, corn syrup and other agricultural products as well as aluminum, glass jars, plastic trays, corrugated fiberboard and plastic packaging materials provided by third-party suppliers. We buy from a variety of producers and manufacturers, and alternate sources of supply are generally available. However, the supply and price are subject to market conditions and are influenced by other factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, natural disasters, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, insects, plant diseases, and fungi. Adverse weather conditions may occur more frequently as a result of climate change and other factors. Adverse weather conditions 16Table of Contentsand natural disasters can reduce crop size and crop quality, which in turn could reduce our supplies of raw materials, lower recoveries of usable raw materials, increase the prices of our raw materials, increase our cost of storing raw materials if harvests are accelerated and processing capacity is unavailable, or interrupt or delay our production schedules if harvests are delayed.We do not have long-term contracts with many of our suppliers, and, as a result, they could increase prices or fail to deliver. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could increase our costs and disrupt our operations.If our assessments and assumptions about commodity prices, as well as ingredient and other prices and currency exchange rates, prove to be incorrect in connection with our hedging or forward-buy efforts or planning cycles, our costs may be greater than anticipated and our financial results could be adversely affected. Volatility in commodity prices will impact our results of operations.From time to time, we enter into commodity forward contracts to fix the price of natural gas, diesel fuel, corn, soybean oil and other commodity purchases at a future delivery date. However, such strategies do not fully address commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Additionally, changes in the value of our commodities derivatives are recorded in the Cost of products sold line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Accordingly, volatility in commodities could result in volatility in our results of operations. As of December 29, 2013, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse movement in the underlying commodity prices, would have resulted in an unrealized net loss of $2.1 million.In addition, certain parts of our foreign operations in Canada expose us to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Net sales in Canada accounted for 3.4% of Consolidated Net Sales for fiscal 2013. We seek to reduce our exposure to such foreign exchange risks primarily through the use of foreign exchange-related derivative financial instruments. We enter into derivative financial instruments to protect the value or fix the amount of certain obligations in terms of our functional currency. As of December 29, 2013, a 10% decline in the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar would have decreased the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts by $4.5 million.We may cease any of our current programs or use other hedging or derivative programs in the future. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities, natural gas and diesel fuel, including our assumptions about future prices and currency exchange rates. For example, if we believe market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or even none, of our upcoming requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices or currency exchange rates subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices or currency exchange rates subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our current hedging and derivatives programs.We may not be able to successfully identify, evaluate and integrate businesses we may acquire in the future and we may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, or other synergies from such acquisitions.We may not be able to identify and complete acquisitions in the future, and our failure to identify and complete acquisitions could limit our ability to grow our business beyond our existing brands.Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including the following: •we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms;•our acquisition of suitable businesses could be prohibited by U.S. or foreign antitrust laws; and•we may have to obtain additional equity financing or incur additional debt to finance future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.The process of integrating an acquired business, involves risks. These risks include, but are not limited to: •demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of our business;•diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations;•difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices;•difficulties in conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to ours;•retaining the loyalty and business of the customers of acquired businesses;•retaining employees that may be vital to the integration of acquired businesses or to the future prospects of the combined businesses;17Table of Contents•difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, information technology systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, such as internal accounting controls, procedures, and policies;•costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities;•the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect;•our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction; and•the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets.Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may result in reduced levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency than might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses.Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to rising interest rate risk and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.We are highly leveraged. As of December 29, 2013, our total indebtedness was $2.5 billion. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: •requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities or to pay dividends;•exposing us to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility that are not hedged;•making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness;•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•subjecting us to restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility in operating our business;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged.Despite our significant leverage, we may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage.Litigation or claims regarding our trademarks and any other proprietary rights or termination of our material licenses may have a significant, negative impact on our business.We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws. We consider our trademarks to be of significant importance to our business and devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. However, our trademark or other intellectual property applications are not always approved. Third parties may also oppose our intellectual property applications, or otherwise challenge our use of our trademark or other intellectual property. The actions we have taken or will take in the future may not be adequate to prevent violation of our trademark or other proprietary rights by others or prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as an alleged violation of their trademark or other proprietary rights. We may need to initiate future claims or litigation or defend claims or litigation against us to enforce our trademark or other proprietary rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the trademark or other proprietary rights of others. Any future claims or litigation of this type, even without merit, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any such future claims or litigation may: (a) be expensive and time consuming to defend; (b) cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (c) require us to rebrand our products or redesign our packaging, if feasible; (d) divert management’s attention and resources; or (e) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any inability to use our trademarks or other proprietary rights could harm our business and sales through reduced demand for our products and reduced revenues.As described in greater detail under “Item 1 - Business-Intellectual Property,” we manufacture our Aunt Jemima, Armour, Swanson and Voila! brands under license agreements from various third parties. The loss of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business.18Table of ContentsWe may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories.The food and beverage industry’s overall growth is linked to population growth. Our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories. Because our operations are concentrated in North America, where growth in the food and beverage industry has been moderate, our success also depends in part on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our failure to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations.We may be subject to product liability claims should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness, or death.We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated, or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming and may require our management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business.A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in product withdrawals or recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of demand for our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Due to the seasonality of the business, our revenue and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter.Our sales and cash flows are affected by seasonal cyclicality. Sales of frozen foods, including frozen vegetables and frozen complete bagged meals, tend to be marginally higher during the winter months. Seafood sales peak during Lent, in advance of the Easter holiday. Sales of pickles, relishes, barbecue sauces, potato chips and salad dressings tend to be higher in the spring and summer months, and demand for Duncan Hines products, Birds Eye vegetables and our pie and pastry fruit fillings tend to be higher around the Easter, Thanksgiving, and Christmas holidays. Since many of the raw materials we process under the Birds Eye and Vlasic brands are agricultural crops, production of these products is predominantly seasonal, occurring during and immediately following the purchase of such crops. We also increase our Duncan Hines inventories in advance of the peak fall selling season. As a result, our inventory levels tend to be higher during August, September, and October, and thus we require more working capital during these months. We are typically a seasonal net user of cash in the third quarter of the calendar year. For these reasons, sequential quarterly comparisons are not a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. If we are unable to obtain access to working capital or if seasonal fluctuations are greater than anticipated, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We face risks associated with certain pension obligations.We hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans. Deterioration in the value of plan assets, resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause an increase in the underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. The underfunding in our pension plans totaled $47.2 million as of December 29, 2013. The decrease in discount rates from approximately 6% in 2008 to approximately 4.8% as of December 29, 2013 has had a significant impact to our funding status. We have contributed cash significantly in excess of expense for the last three years to improve the funded status of the plans and intend to continue to do so. Changes in interest rates in the future could have a significant effect on our funded status.Our obligation to make contributions to the pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses and may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity.Our financial well-being could be jeopardized by unforeseen changes in our employees’ collective bargaining agreements or shifts in union policy.We employed approximately 3,700 people as of December 29, 2013, with approximately 52% of our hourly employees unionized. Due to the seasonality of our pickle and vegetable businesses, our employment fluctuates throughout the year, and thus our average number of employees was approximately 4,200 throughout fiscal 2013.19Table of ContentsIn October 2013, negotiations with the union began on the collective bargaining agreement for approximately 480 employees at our Darien, Wisconsin plant. Those negotiations are ongoing and we continue to operate under the existing contract. Our other unionized employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements expiring between April 2014 and October 2022.Failure to extend or renew our collective bargaining agreements or a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with union employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to reach new agreements upon the expiration of our existing collective bargaining agreements and if we do reach new agreements, such agreements may not be on terms that we consider favorable. Furthermore, labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized.We and our third-party co-packers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, worker health, and workplace safety. Costs to comply with these laws and regulations, or claims with respect to environmental, health and safety matters, could have a significant negative impact on our business.Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, employee exposure to hazards in the workplace and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We are required to obtain and comply with environmental permits for many of our operations, and sometimes we are required to install pollution control equipment or to implement operational changes to limit air emissions or wastewater discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental releases of hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines or penalties, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of any violations of environmental laws and regulations, noncompliance with environmental permit conditions or contamination for which we may be responsible that is identified or that may occur in the future. Such costs may be material.Under federal and state environmental laws, we may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, as well as related costs of investigation and damage to natural resources, at various properties, including our current and former properties and the former properties of our predecessors, as well as offsite waste handling or disposal sites that we or our predecessors have used. Liability may be imposed upon us without regard to whether we knew of or caused the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Any such locations, or locations that we may acquire in the future, may result in liability to us under such laws or expose us to third party actions such as tort suits based on alleged conduct or environmental conditions. In addition, we may be liable if hazardous or toxic substances migrate from properties for which we may be responsible to other properties.In addition to regulations applicable to our operations, failure by any of our co-packers or other suppliers to comply with regulations, or allegations of compliance failure, may disrupt their operations and could result in potential liability. Even if we were able to obtain insurance coverage or compensation for any losses or damages resulting from the non-compliance of a co-packer or supplier with applicable regulations, our brands and reputation may be adversely affected by negative perceptions of our brands stemming from such compliance failures.We cannot predict what environmental or health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted. We also cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with such environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or to respond to environmental claims.Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and other governmental entities and such regulations are subject to change from time to time which could impact how we manage our production and sale of products. Federal budget cuts could result in furloughs for government employees, including inspectors and reviewers for our plants and products and for our suppliers’ plants and products, which could materially impact our ability to manufacture regulated products.Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA and other national, state, and local authorities. For example, we are subject to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging, and safety of food. Under this program, the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods through, among other things, its current “good manufacturing practices” regulations, or cGMPs, and specifies the recipes for certain foods. Our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities. In addition, we must comply with similar laws in Canada. In January 2011, the FDA’s Food Safety Modernization Act was signed into law. The law will increase the number of inspections at food facilities in the U.S. in an effort to enhance the detection of food borne illness outbreaks and order recalls of tainted food products. The FTC and other authorities regulate how we market and advertise our products, and we could be the 20Table of Contentstarget of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected.We seek to comply with applicable regulations through a combination of employing internal personnel to ensure quality-assurance compliance (for example, assuring that food packages contain only ingredients as specified on the package labeling) and contracting with third-party laboratories that conduct analysis of products for the nutritional-labeling requirements. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations is costly and time-consuming. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or maintain permits and licenses relating to our operations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could result in increased operating costs resulting in a material adverse effect on our operating results and business.In addition, current budget cuts proposed by the federal government could result in furloughs for government employees, including inspectors and reviewers for our plants and products and for our suppliers’ plants and products. Such furloughs could materially impact our ability to manufacture regulated products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, cyber attacks and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business and the overall economic environment.At December 29, 2013, the carrying value of goodwill and tradenames was $1,628.1 million and $1,951.4 million, respectively. We evaluate the carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, in December, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. We have recorded impairment charges in recent years, including a $0.5 million tradename impairment in fiscal 2012 and $148.2 million of goodwill and tradename impairments in fiscal 2011. The value of goodwill and intangible assets will be derived from our business operating plans and is susceptible to an adverse change in demand, input costs, general changes in the business, or changes in the overall economic environment and could require an impairment charge in the future. If we are unable to retain our key management personnel, our future performance may be impaired and our financial condition could suffer as a result.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. Departure by certain of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. The services of such personnel may not continue to be available to us.We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryovers.If there is an unfavorable adjustment from an United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) examination (whether as a result of a change in law or IRS policy or otherwise) that reduces any of our NOLCs, cash taxes may increase and impact our ability to pay dividends or make interest payments on our indebtedness. As of December 29, 2013, we had NOLCs for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $1.0 billion. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to annual limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLCs to offset future taxable income. Certain of our existing NOLCs are subject to annual limitations under Section 382 of the Code. In addition, if we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize NOLCs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Code. The IPO and our secondary offering in December 2013 may have increased the risk of an ownership change. Moreover, future shifts in ownership of our common stock (including future sales by Blackstone) may cause an ownership change. These limitations and/or our failure to generate sufficient taxable income may result in the expiration of the NOLCs before they are utilized. For further detail on our NOLCs, see Note 16 “Taxes on Earnings” to our consolidated financial statements.21Table of ContentsAffiliates of Blackstone control us and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.Affiliates of Blackstone beneficially own approximately 51% of our common stock. As a result, affiliates of Blackstone have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In addition, Blackstone may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, Blackstone could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or cause us to sell revenue-generating assets. Blackstone is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Blackstone also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by affiliates of Blackstone collectively continue to control us, even if such amount is less than 50%, Blackstone will continue to be able to influence or effectively control our decisions and, so long as Blackstone and its affiliates collectively own at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, appoint individuals to our Board of Directors under our stockholders agreement. In addition, Blackstone may determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and may cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors and may preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.