Risk factors In conducting our business, we face many risks that may interfere with our business objectives. Some of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, industry, regulatory, business and financial conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this annual report before you decide to invest in our Ordinary Shares. If any of the negative events referred to below occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In any such case, the trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Product Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization We depend entirely on the success of our only current clinical-stage product candidate, MDX, and we may not obtain regulatory approval of MDX for the treatment of ADHD or other cognitive dysfunctions such as Fragile X, or we may be unable to successfully commercialize it. We have invested almost all of our efforts and financial resources in the research and development of MDX, which is currently our only clinical-stage product candidate. As a result, our business is entirely dependent on our ability to complete the development of, obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize, MDX in a timely manner. The process to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize MDX is long, complex, costly and uncertain of outcome. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drugs are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the United States and other regulatory agencies in other countries. These regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market MDX or any other product candidate in the United States until we receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from regulatory agencies in such countries. We are required to conduct multiple additional pre-clinical and clinical trials to be able to submit an NDA to the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities in other countries. The results of additional pre-clinical and clinical trials may be unsatisfactory, and even if we believe those trials to be successful, there are many reasons why the FDA may not approve our NDA should we be in a position to file one. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. In particular, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that a product receive pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. This can result in substantial delays in such countries. In other countries, product approval depends on showing superiority to an approved alternative therapy. This can result in significant expense for conducting complex clinical trials. Finally, we do not have any products approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including international markets, and we do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals or if regulatory approvals in international markets are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be harmed. 4 Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for MDX. This would reduce our target market and limit the full commercial potential of MDX. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons. We may not be able to commence or complete the clinical trials that would support our submission of an NDA to the FDA. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. Clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including: • difficulties obtaining regulatory approval to commence or complete a clinical trial, or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial; • delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • failure of our third-party contractors, such as CROs and CMOs, or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner; • insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • difficulties obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • the FDA requiring alterations to any of our study designs, our pre-clinical strategy or our manufacturing plans; • challenges recruiting and enrolling subjects to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size and nature of subject population, proximity of subjects to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the trial, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications; • difficulties in maintaining contact with subjects after treatment, which results in incomplete data; • receipt by a competitor of marketing approval for a product targeting an indication that our product targets, such that we are not “first to market” with our product candidate; • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and • varying interpretations of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • unforeseen safety issues, including serious adverse events associated with a product candidate, or lack of effectiveness; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Positive results in previous pre-clinical and clinical trials of MDX may not be replicated in future clinical trials of MDX, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval. Positive results in previous pre-clinical and clinical studies of MDX may not be predictive of similar results in future clinical trials. Also, interim results during a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for MDX may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. 5 Obtaining approval of an NDA even after clinical trials that are believed to be successful is an uncertain process. Even if we complete our planned clinical trials and believe the results to be successful, all of which are uncertain, obtaining approval of an NDA is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA (and other regulatory agencies) may delay, limit or deny approval of MDX for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that MDX is safe and effective for any indication; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical significance required by the FDA for approval; • the FDA may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; • the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that MDX’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; • the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; • the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites; • the data collected from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of MDX may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA; • the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner, or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling, or distribution and use restrictions; • the FDA may require development of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy as a condition of approval; • the FDA may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third party manufacturers with which we enter into agreements for clinical and commercial supplies; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; • the FDA may require that an NDA application for ADHD includes the pediatric sub-population, delaying an approval for the adult sub-population; and • we may have successful clinical trial results for adults but not children and adolescents. Before we can submit an NDA to the FDA, we may be required to conduct multiple registration studies, which are trials intended to support FDA product registration. Registration studies frequently produce unsatisfactory results even if prior clinical trials were successful. Therefore, the results of the additional trials that we conduct may or may not be successful. The FDA may suspend all clinical trials or require that we conduct additional clinical, nonclinical, manufacturing validation or drug product quality studies and submit those data before it will consider or reconsider the NDA. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the FDA to approve the NDA. If any of these outcomes occur, we would not receive approval for MDX and may be forced to cease operations. Even if we obtain FDA approval for MDX for the treatment of ADHD, or other cognitive dysfunctions, the approval might contain significant limitations related to use restrictions for certain age groups, warnings, precautions or contraindications, or may be subject to significant post-marketing studies or risk mitigation requirements. If we are unable to successfully commercialize MDX, we may be forced to cease operations. Even if MDX receives marketing approval, there could be adverse effects not discovered during development. Even if MDX receives marketing approval, we or others may later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product or problems with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, and in either event a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or distribution and use restrictions; • regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “Dear Doctor” letters; 6 • regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the affected product, including safety communications; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials or restrict the distribution or use of the product; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase commercialization costs or even force us to cease operations. Obtaining regulatory approval for clinical trials of MDX in children will be more difficult than obtaining such approvals for adult clinical trials since the requirements for regulatory approval to conduct pediatric clinical trials are more stringent. Pediatric drug development requires additional non-clinical work (such as animal studies in juvenile animals and additional reproductive toxicity work), as well as staged clinical work in determining safe dosing and monitoring. These additional tasks involve investment of significant additional resources beyond those needed for development of the drug for adults. Development of our drug for children may be significantly delayed due to these additional requirements. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, which may result in necessary changes to clinical trial protocols, which could result in increased costs to us, delay our development timeline or reduce the likelihood of successful completion of our clinical trials. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, as a result of which we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for review and approval, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for MDX would be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue would be delayed, possibly materially. We may not be able to maintain FDA “Orphan Drug” designation for metadoxine, the active ingredient in MDX to treat Fragile X. The regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the United States and Europe, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 individuals annually in the United States. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity, which precludes the FDA or the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, from approving another marketing application for the same drug for that time period. The applicable period is seven years in the United States and ten years in Europe. The European exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation or if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. Orphan drug exclusivity may be lost if the FDA or EMA determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Although we have obtained orphan drug designation for MDX to treat Fragile X in the United States, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any particular orphan indication due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs with different active moieties can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve a different drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is clinically superior in that it is shown to be safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. We have obtained fast track designation from the FDA for MDX for the treatment of Fragile X. However, fast track designation may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process, and it does not increase the likelihood that our product candidate will receive marketing approval. If a product is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the product candidate demonstrates the potential to address unmet needs for this condition, the sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. If the fast track designation is obtained, the FDA may initiate review of sections of an NDA, before the application is complete. This “rolling review” is available if the applicant provides, and the FDA approves, a schedule for submission of the individual sections of the application. In addition, such a product could be eligible for priority review if supported by clinical data at the time of NDA (if the product is indicated for a serious condition and demonstrates the “Potential To Be a Significant Improvement in Safety or Effectiveness”). A priority review designation means the FDA’s goal is to take action on the marketing application within six months of receipt (compared with 10 months under standard review), and the sponsor may apply for a priority review designation when the NDA is submitted to the FDA. In September 2015, the FDA notified us that we had obtained fast track designation for MDX for the treatment of Fragile X. Fast track designation does not ensure that we will experience a faster development, regulatory review or approval process compared to conventional FDA procedures or that we will ultimately obtain regulatory approval of MDX. Additionally, the FDA may withdraw fast track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. 7 Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize MDX or any other product candidate that we develop and affect the prices we may obtain. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval for MDX or any other product candidate that we develop, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell MDX or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of MDX, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation authorized Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively PPACA, was enacted. The PPACA is a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and the health insurance industry, impose new taxes and fees on the healthcare industry and impose additional health policy reforms. This law revises the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states once the provision is effective. Further, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. While the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of most elements of the PPACA in June 2012, other legal challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions. In addition, Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. We can provide no assurance that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. Even if MDX or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and the product may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if marketing approval is obtained, a regulatory authority may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indications, conditions for use, distribution or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-market surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials. For example, any labeling ultimately approved by the FDA for MDX, if it is approved for marketing, may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how ADHD is defined and diagnosed or limiting MDX to second-line or concomitant therapy. In addition, the labeling may include significant restrictions on use. MDX will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, distribution, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information, including adverse events, and any changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. The FDA has significant post-market authority, including, for example, the authority to require labeling changes based on new safety information and to require post-market studies or clinical trials to evaluate serious safety risks related to the use of a drug. These risks include adverse drug interactions and concomitant therapy with other medications. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other regulations. If we, our drug products or the manufacturing facilities for our drug products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; 8 • seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; • suspend or withdraw marketing approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications; • suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or request that we initiate a product recall; or • refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business. If we obtain approval to commercialize MDX outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business. If MDX is approved for commercialization outside the United States, we will likely enter into agreements with third parties to market MDX outside the United States. We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to entering into or maintaining international business relationships, including: • different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; • differing United States and foreign drug import and export rules; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in foreign countries; • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • different reimbursement systems; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; • potential liability resulting from development work conducted by these distributors; and • business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenues from MDX. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results will be adversely affected. If we receive marketing approval for MDX, sales will be limited unless the product achieves broad market acceptance. The commercial success of MDX and any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors. The degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: 9 • demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • the relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling; • distribution and use restrictions imposed by the FDA or agreed to by us as part of a mandatory or voluntary risk management plan; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of MDX, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of ADHD (or Fragile X, or other cognitive dysfunctions, as the case may be) or expected to be commercially launched in the near future; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and • the willingness of patients to pay for drugs out of pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. If MDX is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of the product may require significant resources and may never be successful. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. In particular, any labeling approved by the FDA for MDX may include restrictions on use, such as limitations on how ADHD is defined and diagnosed, limiting the use of MDX to a specific population, such as a defined age group, or limiting MDX to second-line or concomitant therapy. The FDA may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of MDX as part of a mandatory plan, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. If we receive marketing approval for MDX, physicians may nevertheless prescribe MDX to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. It will be difficult for us to profitably sell MDX if reimbursement for the product is limited. Market acceptance and sales of MDX will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations (HMOs), decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for MDX and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement in order to limit off label use of a higher priced drug. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product candidate is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. 10 Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product candidate from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical, and cost effectiveness data for the use of our product candidates to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. We cannot be sure that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be available for any of our product candidates. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our product candidate. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize certain of our product candidates profitably, or at all, even if approved. If third-party manufacturers fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, our financial results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Before they can begin commercial manufacture of MDX, contract manufacturers must obtain regulatory approval of their manufacturing facilities, processes and quality systems. In addition, pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are continuously subject to inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities before and after product approval. Due to the complexity of the processes used to manufacture pharmaceutical products and product candidates, any potential third-party manufacturer may be unable to continue to pass or initially pass federal, state or international regulatory inspections in a cost effective manner. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract is unable to comply with manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to fines, unanticipated compliance expenses, recall or seizure of our products, total or partial suspension of production and/or enforcement actions, including injunctions, and criminal or civil prosecution. These possible sanctions would adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We currently have no manufacturing, sales or distribution capabilities to market and sell MDX. If we do not establish these capabilities we will rely primarily on third parties to market and sell MDX. While we have begun to implement pre-commercialization activities, we currently have no manufacturing, sales or distribution capabilities. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize MDX, if marketing approval is obtained, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized MDX ourselves. In addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. In the event we are unable to collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization to commercialize MDX, particularly for broader patient populations, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, MDX or any other product candidate that we develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. There are a number of existing treatments for ADHD currently on the market, all of which are marketed by pharmaceutical companies that are far larger and more experienced than we are. The FDA has not approved any drugs specifically for the treatment of Fragile X or its symptoms, although there are several pharmaceutical companies with compounds to treat Fragile X in late stage clinical development. Patients and doctors are often unwilling to change medications, and this factor will make it difficult for MDX to penetrate the market. Further, our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. All of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with MDX or other product candidates we may have in the future. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. These companies may have products in development that are superior to MDX. Key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of MDX and any other product candidates that we may develop in the future are likely to be efficacy, time of onset, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make MDX or other product candidates we may develop obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA and other marketing approvals for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render MDX or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render MDX or any other product candidate that we develop non-competitive or obsolete. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. The use of MDX or other drugs exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: 11 • decreased demand for MDX or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval; • impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity; • increased warnings on product labels; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to successfully commercialize MDX or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, our insurance may be inadequate. We obtained clinical trial insurance coverage for our Phase 3 clinical trial in adult ADHD with a $5.0 million aggregate coverage limit in the United States and Israel and we expect that we will obtain additional insurance as we conduct additional clinical trials. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, the insurance market experiences significant changes from year to year due to various factors including the international claims record and general reinsurance terms. Therefore, coverage may become more expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for MDX or any other product candidate, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our share price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. The product liability insurance we will need to obtain in connection with the commercial sales of our product candidates if and when they receive regulatory approval may be unavailable in meaningful amounts or at a reasonable cost. If we are the subject of a successful product liability claim that exceeds the limits of any insurance coverage we obtain, we would incur substantial charges that would adversely affect our earnings and require the commitment of capital resources that might otherwise be available for the development and commercial launch of our product programs. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have a limited operating history and we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are an emerging biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We are in the development stage. To date, we have focused almost exclusively on developing our lead compound, MDX. We have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from the private placement and public offering of ordinary shares and convertible notes. We have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical industry. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in February 2008. Our loss attributable to holders of our ordinary shares for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 was approximately $32.8 million, and $19.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $71 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development program and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our research and development expenses may increase in connection with our clinical development plan. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for MDX, we will likely incur significant sales, marketing and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued research and development expenses. Furthermore, we incur and will continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company, which are at least several hundred thousand dollars annually. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all 12 We have not generated any revenue from MDX or any other product candidate and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, we have not generated any revenue from our development stage product candidate, MDX, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. We do not expect to generate significant revenue from sales of our product candidate unless or until we obtain marketing approval of, and commercialize, MDX. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • obtain favorable results from and progress the clinical development of MDX; • develop and obtain regulatory approval for registration studies protocols for MDX; • subject to successful completion of registration, clinical trials and perhaps additional clinical trials of MDX, apply for and obtain marketing approval; • contract for the manufacture of commercial quantities of MDX at acceptable cost levels if marketing approval is received; and • establish sales and marketing capabilities, both internal and external, to effectively market and sell MDX in the United States and other countries. Even if MDX is approved for commercial sale for the treatment of ADHD or Fragile X, it may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. In addition, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercialization. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product revenue, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable and would be unable to continue operations without continued funding. We may need substantial additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. We may need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and to develop and commercialize MDX. Our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including: • our clinical trials results; • the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing MDX; • the cost, timing and outcomes of seeking marketing approval of MDX; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and the cost of defending our issued patents and future patents, if issued; • the cost of prosecuting infringement actions against third parties; • exploration and possible label expansion of MDX for the treatment of other conditions; • the costs associated with commercializing MDX if we receive marketing approval, including the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to market and sell MDX; • the cost of manufacturing MDX; • the timing, receipt and amount of sales of, or royalties on, sales of MDX, if any; • subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue received from sales of approved products, if any, in the future; • any product liability or other lawsuits related to our products; • costs associated with the expansion of our product pipeline; • the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel; and • the costs associated with being a public company. Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that our existing resources will be sufficient to enable us to maintain our currently planned operations, including our continued product development, through 2017. We believe these funds will enable us, among other things, to complete our ongoing second Phase 3 clinical trial in adult ADHD and our planned clinical trials in pediatric ADHD and Fragile X.. Our operating plan may significantly change as a result of new clinical data or other considerations related to our clinical development plan. 13 We will require significant additional funds to initiate and complete the FDA approval process. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. We have no committed external sources of funds. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to: • delay, limit, reduce, or terminate clinical trials or other development activities for MDX; or • delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize MDX, if we obtain marketing approval. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Raising additional capital would cause dilution to our existing shareholders, and may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We have in the past and may continue to seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. Including our initial public offering in 2013, we have completed four underwritten public offerings to date. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible notes securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a shareholder. Debt financing, if available, would result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties We have no manufacturing capacity and may choose to rely on third-party manufacturers for our products. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical production of MDX. We do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of products for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We will rely on third-party manufacturers to produce bulk drug products required for our clinical trials on a timely basis. We plan to continue to rely upon CMOs and, potentially, collaboration partners to manufacture commercial quantities of our drug product candidates if and when approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory authorities. If the third-party manufacturing sources we rely on cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, we may not be able to complete development, production and marketing of MDX. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control (including a failure to synthesize and manufacture our product candidates in accordance with our product specifications) and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. We will be dependent on the ability of these third-party manufacturers to produce supplies of drug product adequate to support our clinical development programs and future commercialization of our MDX. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that MDX be manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP or failure to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of MDX in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval for trial initiation or marketing of MDX. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including recall or seizure, fines, imposition of operating restrictions, total or partial suspension of production or injunctions. We have limited staffing and rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce MDX for our clinical studies. There are a small number of suppliers for certain capital equipment and materials that we use to manufacture our drugs. Such suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. Although we generally do not begin a clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate to complete the clinical trial, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate or the material components thereof for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could considerably delay completion of our clinical studies, product testing and potential regulatory approval. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for MDX, its commercial launch would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, either of which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of MDX. Our contract manufacturers have not completed process validation for the drug substance manufacturing process. If our contract manufacturers are not approved by the FDA, our commercial supply of drug substance will be significantly delayed and may result in significant additional costs. We purchase finished MDX drug product from a third party under a clinical supply agreement. We do not have an agreement in place for, and we have not identified, a secondary fill/finish supplier. If we need to identify an additional fill/finish manufacturer, we would not be able to do so without significant delay and likely significant additional cost. 14 Our contract manufacturer’s failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product shortages, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Our existing manufacturers and any future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business. In the event of a natural disaster, business failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace a third-party manufacturer in a timely manner and the production of MDX would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, because some of our contract manufacturers of the bulk drug substance are located outside of the United States, we may face difficulties in importing our drug substances into the United States as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Any collaboration arrangements that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future product candidates. We may seek collaboration arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for the development or commercialization of our current and potential future product candidates. We may enter into these arrangements on a selective basis depending on the merits of retaining commercialization rights for ourselves as compared to entering into selective collaboration arrangements with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for each product candidate, both in the United States and internationally. We will face, to the extent that we decide to enter into collaboration agreements, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we so choose to enter into such arrangements. The terms of any collaborations or other arrangements that we may establish may not be favorable to us. Any future collaborations that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. Disagreements between parties to a collaboration arrangement regarding clinical development and commercialization matters can lead to delays in the development process or commercializing the applicable product candidate and, in some cases, termination of the collaboration arrangement. These disagreements can be difficult to resolve if neither of the parties has final decision making authority. Even with respect to certain other programs that we intend to commercialize ourselves, we may enter into agreements with collaborators to share in the burden of conducting clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing our product candidates or products. In addition, our ability to apply our proprietary technologies to develop proprietary compounds will depend on our ability to establish and maintain licensing arrangements or other collaborative arrangements with the holders of proprietary rights to such compounds. We may not be able to establish such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. Collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Any such termination or expiration would adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. We currently depend on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. We rely on third parties, such as CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to oversee some of the operations of our clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. If we are unable to maintain or enter into agreements with these third parties on acceptable terms, or if any such agreement is terminated, we may be unable to enroll patients on a timely basis or otherwise conduct our trials in the manner we anticipate. Even if we are able to maintain or enter into such agreements, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in accordance with regulatory requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations and meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our financial results and the commercial prospects for MDX or any other potential product candidates could be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales could be delayed. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We have filed multiple patent applications and have three issued patents by the U.S. PTO, and 11 issued patents in other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that any of our other patent applications will result in issued patents. As a result, we may have limited protection of our proprietary technology in the marketplace. 15 We have filed patent applications in many countries worldwide. These applications cover a range of areas including: different formulations of metadoxine, uses of metadoxine for cognitive impairments, new molecular derivatives of metadoxine, and methods for determining responsiveness to metadoxine treatment. As of December 31, 2015, we have three issued U.S. patents, covering the composition of the sustained release form of MDX, the use of metadoxine for ADHD, and new molecular derivatives of metadoxine. We also have six issued patents in Australia, Japan, India, Mexico, Russia and Europe that cover the composition of the sustained release form of MDX. The European patent includes the following territories: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Germany, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Finland, France, United Kingdom, Greece, Croatia, Hungary, Ireland, Iceland, Italy, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Monaco, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sweden, Slovenia, Slovakia and Turkey. Additionally, we have five issued patents in Australia, China, Japan, Mexico and New Zealand that cover the use of metadoxine for ADHD. Unless and until other pending applications issue, their additional protective scope is impossible to determine. It is impossible to predict whether or how many of these additional applications will result in issued patents. Even if pending applications issue, they may issue with claims significantly narrower than those we currently seek. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is generally uncertain because it involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards applied by the U.S. PTO and foreign patent offices in granting patents are not always applied uniformly or predictably. For example, there is no uniform worldwide policy regarding patentable subject matter or the scope of claims allowable in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Consequently, patents may not issue from our pending patent applications. As such, we do not know the degree of future protection that we will have on our proprietary products and technology. The patent positions of pharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain and therefore we cannot predict the scope and extent of patent protection for MDX with respect to our issued patents, or any patents we may be issued in the future. The patents we were issued as well as any additional patents that may in the future issue to us will not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including without limitation the following: • any issued patents may not be broad or strong enough to prevent competition from other products including identical or similar products; • if we are not issued additional patents or if issued patents expire, there would be no protections against competitors making generic equivalents; • there may be prior art of which we are not aware that may affect the validity or enforceability of a patent claim; • there may be other patents existing in the patent landscape for MDX that will affect our freedom to operate; • if our issued patents or future patents, if issued, are challenged, a court could determine that they are not valid or enforceable; • a court could determine that a competitor’s technology or product does not infringe our issued patents or future patents, if issued; • our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets; • our issued patents and future patents, if issued, could irretrievably lapse due to failure to pay fees or otherwise comply with regulations, or could be subject to compulsory licensing; and • if we encounter delays in our development or clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market our products under patent protection would be reduced. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. This risk is exacerbated for us because metadoxine is manufactured and used in a number of foreign countries in other applications. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. This risk is exacerbated for us because metadoxine is manufactured and used in a number of foreign countries in other applications and is generally available. The manufacture of metadoxine and its use in other indications will not infringe our intellectual property rights, and will make it more difficult to monitor and enforce any patent rights that may be issued to us. The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, especially those relating to life sciences. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of any in-licensed patents we may acquire or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, many foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of intellectual property. 16 We may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing or increase the costs of commercializing our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, there could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe. There also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. For example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. If a court held that any third-party patents are valid, enforceable and cover our products or their use, the holders of any of these patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize our products unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until the patents expire. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements or make other arrangements at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could result in delays in the introduction of our products or lead to prohibition of the manufacture or sale of products by us. Even if we or any future strategic partners were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing one or more of our products or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position. Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees and certain key consultants. These agreements prohibit our employees and certain key consultants, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period of time. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company's confidential commercial information or the protection of its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that such interests will be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants and our ability to remain competitive may be diminished. Any lawsuits relating to infringement of intellectual property rights necessary to defend ourselves or enforce our rights will be costly and time consuming. Our ability to defend our intellectual property may require us to initiate litigation to enforce our rights or defend our activities in response to alleged infringement of a third party. In addition, we may be sued by others who hold intellectual property rights who claim that their issued patents are infringed by MDX or any future products or product candidates. These lawsuits can be very time consuming and costly. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. In addition, our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face other challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings, and re-examination proceedings. Any of these challenges, if successful, could result in the invalidation of, or in a narrowing of the scope of, any of our patent and patent applications subject to challenge. Any of these challenges, regardless of their success, would likely be time consuming and expensive to defend and resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. 17 Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of our issued patents, or future patents, if issued, in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products. As is the case with other pharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing pharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. Intellectual property litigation may lead to unfavorable publicity that harms our reputation and causes the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. During the course of any patent litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, rulings on motions and other interim proceedings in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the perceived value of our products, programs or intellectual property could be diminished. Accordingly, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry We are a clinical-stage company with no approved products, which makes it difficult to assess our future viability. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully: • execute product candidate development activities; • obtain required regulatory approvals for the development and commercialization of our product candidates; • maintain, leverage and expand our intellectual property portfolio; • build and maintain robust sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, either on our own or in collaboration with strategic partners; • gain market acceptance for our products; • develop and maintain any strategic relationships we elect to enter into; and • manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to drug discovery, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and commercialization. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop product candidates, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. We manage our business through a small number of employees and key consultants. We depend on them even more than similarly-situated companies. Our key employees include our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Yaron Daniely, who has been with us since 2010, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Tomer Berkovitz, who has been with us since 2014, our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Jonathan Rubin, who has been with us since 2013, our Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. David Baker, who has been with us since 2014, our Senior Vice President CMC (chemistry, manufacturing and controls), Ms. Hanna Ron, who has been with us since 2011, our Senior Vice President Regulatory Affairs, Dr. Hagit Marchaim, who has been with us since 2014, our Vice President Finance, Ms. Irena Katsman, who has been with us since 2015, our Senior Vice President of Preclinical Development, Dr. Johanna Schumann, who has been with us since 2013, and our Director of Quality Assurance, Mr. Shlomi Ianovitz, who has been with us since 2015. Our future growth and success depend on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our employees and key consultants. The loss of the services of our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer or any of our key employees or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Although we have employment agreements in place with management, these agreements are terminable at will with minimal notice. 18 Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical consultants. In particular, the loss of one or more of our senior executive officers or key consultants could be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. We do not currently carry “key person” insurance on the lives of members of senior management. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on an annual basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these internal controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years from our initial public offering in 2013. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. We may need to significantly increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We currently have 19 employees, and in order to commercialize our products, we may need to substantially increase our operations, including expanding our employee base of managerial, operational and financial personnel. Any future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our clinical trials and the regulatory process effectively; • hire and train additional qualified personnel; and • integrate current and additional management, administrative, financial and sales and marketing personnel. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations include the following: • the Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, or the Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government and also includes provisions allowing for private, civil whistleblower or “qui tam” actions; 19 • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program. HIPAA and HITECH also regulate the use and disclosure of identifiable health information by health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses, and impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of identifiable health information as well as requiring notification of regulatory breaches. HIPAA and HITECH violations may prompt civil and criminal enforcement actions as well as enforcement by state attorneys general; • the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • the federal transparency requirements under the Health Care Reform Law requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests; • analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures; and • analogous anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and healthcare laws and regulations in foreign countries may also apply. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. If our employees commit fraud or other misconduct, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading, our business may experience serious adverse consequences. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. In addition, during the course of our operations, our directors, executives and employees may have access to material, nonpublic information regarding our business, our results of operations or potential transactions we are considering. Despite the adoption of an Insider Trading Policy, we may not be able to prevent a director, executive or employee from trading in our ordinary shares on the basis of, or while having access to, material, nonpublic information. If a director, executive or employee was to be investigated, or an action was to be brought against a director, executive or employee for insider trading, it could have a negative impact on our reputation and our stock price. Such a claim, with or without merit, could also result in substantial expenditures of time and money, and divert attention of our management team from other tasks important to the success of our business. Our business may be affected by macroeconomic conditions. A deterioration in global economic conditions and uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could adversely affect the ability of patients and distributors to purchase, pay for and effectively distribute our products. Similarly, these macroeconomic factors could affect the ability of our CMOs, sole-source or single-source suppliers to remain in business or otherwise manufacture or supply product. Failure by any of them to remain a going concern could affect our ability to manufacture products. 20 Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We do not know whether a market for our ordinary shares will be sustained or what the market price of our ordinary shares will be and as a result it may be difficult for you to sell your shares. Although our ordinary shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our shares may not be sustained. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares at all or without depressing the market price for the shares. As a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to sell your ordinary shares at or above the price you paid for such shares or at all. In addition, the trading price of our ordinary shares has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ordinary shares: • inability to obtain the approvals necessary to commence further clinical trials; • unsatisfactory results of clinical trials; • announcements of regulatory approval or the failure to obtain it, or specific label indications or patient populations for its use, or changes or delays in the regulatory review process; • announcements of therapeutic innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our clinical trials, manufacturing supply chain or sales and marketing activities; • changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to MDX; • any adverse changes to our relationship with manufacturers or suppliers; • any intellectual property infringement actions in which we may become involved; • announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical industry in general; • achievement of expected product sales and profitability or our failure to meet expectations; • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • any major changes in our Board of Directors or management; • legislation in the United States relating to the sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals; or • future substantial sales of our ordinary shares. In addition, the stock market in general, and NASDAQ Stock Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of small companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Further, a systemic decline in the financial markets and related factors beyond our control may cause our share price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. We may be subject to any number of legal proceedings. On December 16, 2014, a class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint, brought by a putative class of investors, alleges, among other things, that our officers and directors made false or misleading statements relating to the results of our Phase 3 study for our MDX drug candidate. On May 20, 2015, we moved to dismiss the complaint. The motion to dismiss has been fully briefed, and oral argument occurred on September 22, 2015, and the court’s decision remains pending. Such legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management attention, or damage our reputation and demand for our products. Litigation, particularly in the United States, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards of damages can result if we receive an adverse verdict. In many cases, particularly in the United States, the practice of the plaintiffs’ bar is to claim damages (compensatory, punitive and statutory) in extremely high amounts. Accordingly, it is difficult to quantify the potential exposure to claims in many proceedings of the type mentioned above. Unfavorable resolution of current and similar future proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to monetary and/or non-monetary sanctions and/or may be required to make significant provisions in our accounts related to legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. 21 If we were to be characterized as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. tax purposes, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares could have adverse U.S. income tax consequences. If we were to be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, in any taxable year during which a U.S. taxpayer owns ordinary shares, such U.S. holder could be liable for additional taxes and interest charges upon certain distributions by us and any gain recognized on a sale, exchange or other disposition, including a pledge, of the ordinary shares, whether or not we continue to be a PFIC. Based on the nature of our business, the projected composition of our income and the projected composition and estimated fair market values of our assets, we believe that we may be deemed a PFIC. In particular, in light of the complexity of PFIC rules, we cannot assure you that we have not been a PFIC in prior years or are not a PFIC or will avoid becoming a PFIC in the future. Were we to be classified as a PFIC, a U.S. investor may be able to mitigate some of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences with respect to owning the ordinary shares for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015, provided that such U.S. investor is eligible to make, and successfully makes, a “mark-to-market” election. U.S. investors could also mitigate some of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of us being classified as a PFIC by making a “qualified electing fund” election, provided that we provide the information necessary for a U.S. investor to make such an election. We intend to make available to U.S. investors upon request the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections. U.S. Holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors about the PFIC rules, including tax return filing requirements and the eligibility, manner, and consequences to them of making a QEF or mark-to-market election with respect to our Ordinary Shares in the event we that qualify as a PFIC. For more information see Item 10E. Taxation “U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences.” If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations or publish negative reports regarding our business or our shares, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts and we cannot provide any assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our shares, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Because we do not intend to declare cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future, shareholders must rely on appreciation of the value of our ordinary shares for any return on their investment. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, the Israeli Companies Law imposes certain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends. See Item 10.B. Articles of Association “Dividend and Liquidation Rights” for additional information. The requirements associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, listing requirements and other applicable securities rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires that we file periodic reports with respect to our business and financial condition and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In addition, subsequent rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market may also impose various additional requirements on public companies. As a result, we incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a nonpublic company. These expenses are at least several hundred thousand dollars annually. The JOBS Act will allow us to postpone the date by which we must comply with some of the laws and regulations intended to protect investors and to reduce the amount of information we provide in our reports filed with the SEC, which could undermine investor confidence in our company and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including: • the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; • our ability not to comply with new accounting principles that do not apply to public companies until such accounting principles become applicable to private companies; and • any rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report on the financial statements. 22 We intend to take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering in 2013, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th , and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares, and our share price may be more volatile and may decline. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted and intend to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted, and intend, to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market for domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we intend to follow home country practice in Israel with regard to, among other things, director nomination procedures and approval of compensation of officers. In addition, we may follow our home country law instead of the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or greater interest in the company, and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a United States company listed on NASDAQ may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as domestic U.S. issuers whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. Also, although a recent amendment to the Israeli Companies Law will require us to disclose the annual compensation of our five most highly compensated senior officers on an individual basis (rather than on an aggregate basis, as was permitted under the Israeli Companies Law for Israeli public companies listed overseas, such as in the United States, prior to such amendment), this disclosure will not be as extensive as that required of a U.S. domestic issuer. For example, it currently appears as if the disclosure required under Israeli law would be limited to compensation paid in the immediately preceding year without any requirement to disclose option exercises and vested stock options, pension benefits or potential payments upon termination or change of control. These exemptions and leniencies will reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you are entitled as an investor. Risks Related to Israeli Law and Our Operations in Israel Our headquarters and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our executive offices are located in Tel Aviv, Israel. In addition, the majority of our officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. During November 2012 and July 2014, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with a militia group and political party which controls the Gaza Strip. In addition, recent political uprisings and conflicts in various countries in the Middle East, including Egypt and Syria, are affecting the political stability of those countries. It is not clear how this instability will develop and how it will affect the political and security situation in the Middle East. This instability has raised concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict. In addition, it is widely believed that Iran, which has previously threatened to attack Israel, has been stepping up its efforts to achieve nuclear capability. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Additionally, the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL), a violent jihadist group, is involved in hostilities in Iraq and Syria and has been growing in influence. Although ISIL’s activities have not directly affected the political and economic conditions in Israel, ISIL’s stated purpose is to take control of the Middle East, including Israel. The tension between Israel and Iran and/or these groups may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy in general and us in particular. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Parties with whom we do business may sometimes decline to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary in order to meet our business partners face to face. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in such agreements. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government has in the past covered the reinstatement value of certain damages that were caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained, or if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions generally and could harm our results of operations. 23 Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjected to economic boycotts. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial conditions or the expansion of our business. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the New Israeli Shekel currencies may increase our expenses. The vast majority of our expenses are in U.S. dollars and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar and substantially all of our financial resources are denominated by U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to the risks that the NIS may appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, or if the NIS instead devalues relative to the U.S. dollar, that the inflation rate in Israel may exceed such rate of devaluation of the NIS, or that the timing of such devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In any such event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our U.S. dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected. For instance, in 2015, approximately 20% of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels. Changes of 5% and 10% in the U.S. dollar - NIS exchange rate would have increased/decreased the operation expenses by 0.95% and 1.81%, respectively. The exchange rate as of December 31, 2015 was $1.00 = NIS 3.902. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation (if any) of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. In the past, we received Israeli government grants for certain of our research and development activities. The terms of those grants may require us, in addition to payment of royalties, to satisfy specified conditions in order to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. We may be required to pay penalties in addition to repayment of the grants. Our research and development efforts, during the period between May 1, 2009 and April 30, 2010, were financed in part through royalty-bearing grants, in an amount of $106,494 that we received from Israel's Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS. With respect to such grants we are committed to pay royalties at a rate of 3% to 5% on sales proceeds from MDX, according to the OCS approval, the company is required to pay royalties from any income generated in connection with delayed release metadoxine tablets up to the total amount of grants received, linked to the U.S. dollar and bearing interest at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. Regardless of any royalty payment, we are further required to comply with the requirements of the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 5744-1984, and related regulations, or the Research Law, with respect to those past grants. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using OCS grants, the terms of these grants and the Research Law restrict the transfer of such know-how, and the transfer of manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how outside of Israel, without the prior approval of the OCS. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies, and may result in payment of increased royalties (both increased royalty rates and increased royalties ceilings) and/or payment of additional amounts to the OCS. We may not receive those approvals. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel (including for the purpose of manufacturing). Currently, under the Research Law, there is no mechanism for the approval of licensing transactions of OCS-supported technologies, however, licensing OCS supported technologies may under certain circumstances be considered a transfer of know-how and therefore requires approval as aforementioned. The transfer of OCS-supported technology or know-how outside of Israel may involve the payment of additional amounts depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of OCS support, the time of completion of the OCS-supported research project and other factors up to a maximum of six times the amount of grants received. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel (particularly since currently there is no mechanism for the approval of licensing transactions of OCS supported technologies). Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. Our obligations and limitations pursuant to the Research Law are not limited in time and may not be terminated by us at will. As of the date hereof, we have not been required to pay any royalties with respect to the OCS grants. As of the date hereof, production of bulk drug substance and drug products required for our clinical trials does not involve manufacture of OCS supported products, technologies or know-how, and/or transfer of OCS supported technologies or know-how, and therefore no OCS committee approval has been sought after or required in connection with such production by our third-party manufacturers. Provisions of Israeli law and our amended and restated articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. 24 Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a company's issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the Company's outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. See Item 10.E. Taxation “Israeli Taxation Considerations” for additional information. Our amended and restated articles of association also contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include the following: • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates; and • the right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which may prevent shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us and our officers and directors and the Israeli experts named herein in Israel or the United States, to assert United States securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We were incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors reside outside of the United States, and all of our assets and most of the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not necessarily be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to initiate an action with respect to United States securities laws in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of United States securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not United States law is applicable to the claim. If United States law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable United States law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a United States or foreign court. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our amended and restated articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has certain duties to act in good faith and fairness towards the Company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the Company. See Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions for additional information. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent our acquisition by another entity. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law and of our articles of association may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult any merger or acquisition of us. In addition, any merger or acquisition of us will require the prior consent of the office of the chief scientist, or the Chief Scientist, if intellectual property is removed from Israel, as well as the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Employment, or the Investment Center. Israeli law regulates mergers, votes required to approve a merger, acquisition of shares through tender offers and transactions involving significant shareholders. Any of these provisions may make it more difficult to acquire us. Accordingly, our acquisition by another entity could be delayed or prevented even if it would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our operations may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel or consultants to perform military service. Our male employees and consultants in Israel, including members of our senior management, may be obligated to perform one month, and in some cases longer periods, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves). In this connection, we note that our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Tomer Berkovitz, is 36 years old. In the event of a military conflict, they and other of our key personnel or consultants may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be similar large-scale military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our officers, directors, employees and consultants. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and operations. 25 