ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those described below, which in turn may affect the value of our securities. In addition, other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results and events may differ substantially from those discussed or highlighted in these forward-looking statements. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. See also “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our BusinessWe have incurred net losses in the past and may not experience positive net income in the future. We have incurred net losses in the past and we may incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $240.0 million. Excluding a non-recurring gain on bargain purchase from business combination of $2.9 million, $20.6 million and $14.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our net losses for such periods were $5.4 million, $7.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Any failure by us to obtain or sustain profitability, or to continue our revenue growth, could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue through contracts with HOAs to manage resort properties and with the Collections. The expiration, termination or renegotiation of these management contracts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are party to management contracts relating to 93 properties and the seven Collections, under which we receive fees for providing management services. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we earned management fees under these contracts of $82.1 million, $68.3 million and $57.0 million, respectively, representing approximately 11.2%, 13.0% and 14.6% of our total consolidated revenue for such periods, respectively, and our hospitality and management services business accounts for a significantly greater percentage of our Adjusted EBITDA than of our total consolidated revenue. Each of the Diamond Resorts managed resorts, other than certain resorts in our European Collection, is typically operated through anHOA, and each of the Collections is typically operated through a Collection association. Each of the HOAs and Collection associations is administered by a board of directors. The boards of directors of the HOAs and Collection associations are responsible for authorizing these management contracts, and negotiate and enforce the terms of these agreements as fiduciaries of their respective resort properties and Collections. Furthermore, some state regulations impose limitations on the amount of fees that we may charge the HOAs and Collections for our hospitality management services and the terms of our management contracts. Our management contracts generally have three to ten year terms and are automatically renewable, but provide for early termination rights in certain circumstances. Any of these management contracts may expire at the end of its then-current term (following notice by a party of non-renewal) or be terminated, or the contract terms may be renegotiated in a manner adverse to us. In addition, our growth strategy contemplates leveraging these existing management contracts to add services provided to our members under our management contracts and increase the management fees to cover those new services. There are no guarantees that this strategy will be successful. We believe there are limits to how much we can increase management fees before the HOAs and Collections are unwilling or unable to pay such increased fees, and, if such fees are perceived as being too high by prospective customers, our VOI sales may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy also contemplates our acquisition of, and entry into, new management contracts. We face significant competition to secure new contracts and may be unsuccessful in doing so on favorable terms, if at all. Unfavorable general economic conditions have adversely affected our business and potential deterioration in conditions in the U.S. and globally could result in decreased demand for VOIs and our ability to obtain future financing. There have been periods, including from 2008 through 2010, in which our business has been materially adversely affected by unfavorable general economic conditions, including effects of weak domestic and world economies resulting, in part, from the instability of global financial markets and regional economies caused by the European debt crisis, high unemployment, a decrease in discretionary spending, a decline in housing and real estate values, limited availability of financing and geopolitical conflicts. The AIF has reported that aggregate U.S. VOI sales declined $0.9 billion, or 8.5%, to $9.7 billion in 2008 from $10.6 billion in 2007, and aggregate U.S. VOI sales then declined $3.4 billion, or 35.0%, to $6.3 billion in 2009. Economic conditions in the U.S. and around the world continue to be challenging. See “Our international operations are subject to risks not generally applicable to our domestic operations, including risks related to difficult economic conditions in Europe.” Additional volatility and disruption in worldwide capital and credit markets and any declines in economic conditions in the U.S. (including in states particularly hard-hit by the recent economic downturn, such as California, Arizona and Florida), Europe and in other parts of the world could adversely impact our business and results of operations, particularly if the availability of financing for us or for our customers is limited, or if general economic conditions adversely affect our customers' ability to pay amounts owed under our loans to them or for maintenance fees or assessments. If the HOAs and Collection associations are unable to collect maintenance fees or assessments from our customers, not only would our management fee revenue be adversely affected, but the resorts we manage could fall into disrepair and fail to comply with the quality standards associated with the Diamond Resorts brand, which could decrease customer satisfaction, tarnish our reputation and impair our ability to sell our VOIs. Our revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and declines in or disruptions to the travel industry, such as those caused by adverse economic conditions, terrorism, man-made disasters and acts of God, may adversely affect us. A substantial amount of our VOI sales activities occur at the managed resort locations in our network, and the volume of our sales correlates directly with the number of prospective customers who visit these resorts each year. The number of visitors to these resorts depends upon a variety of factors, some of which are out of our control, such as weather conditions and general travel patterns and the potential impact of natural disasters and crises, such as the ongoing drug cartel-related violence in certain regions of Mexico. For example, the eruption of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano in Iceland in May 2010 and the corresponding travel disruptions caused a decline in visitors to European resorts. Actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest or civil strife and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. In addition, any increased concern about terrorist acts directed against the U.S. and foreign citizens, transportation facilities and assets, and travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases may reduce the number of tourists willing to fly or travel in the future, particularly if new significant terrorist attacks or disease outbreaks occur or are threatened. More generally, the travel industry has been hurt by various events occurring over the last several years, including the effects of weak domestic and global economies. A sustained downturn in travel patterns, including as a result of increases in travel expenses such as higher airfares or gasoline prices, could cause a reduction in the number of potential customers who visit the managed resorts in our network. If we experience a substantial decline in visitors to these resorts, our VOI sales would likely decline. Our future success depends on our ability to market VOIs successfully and efficiently, including sales of additional points to our existing ownership base. We compete for customers with hotel and resort properties and with other vacation ownership resorts and other vacation options such as cruises. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products to those leads, are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to a sufficient number of sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs. Recently, we have increased our focus on new and relatively unproven hospitality-focused marketing methods, such as enhanced mini-vacation packages focused on small groups of potential customers. These marketing 43 methods are more expensive and require a greater commitment of resources than traditional marketing activities, and there can be no assurance that they will be successful on a larger scale. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are additional points purchased by existing members, and our results of operations depend in part on our ability to continue making sales to our ownership base. Our recent rate of sales of additional points to existing owners may not be sustainable in future periods. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain an optimal level of points or intervals in inventory for sales to customers. Our ability to maintain an optimal level of points or intervals in inventory for sale to customers is dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our sales levels and the amount of inventory recovered through consumer loan and association fee defaults. If we experience a significant decline in our inventory of points available for sale, we may be required to expend more capital to acquire inventory. We have entered into inventory recovery agreements with substantially all of the Collections and HOAs for our managed resorts in North America, together with similar arrangements with the European Collections and a majority of our European managed resorts. Pursuant to these agreements and arrangements, we are required to recapture VOIs either in the form of points or intervals, and bring them into our inventory for sale to customers. During each of the past two years, approximately 3.0% to 5.0% of the outstanding points or intervals were recovered by us pursuant to these agreements. We need to maintain such level of recovery to provide us with our relatively low-cost inventory of VOIs for sales to our customers. However, the volume of points or intervals recovered by us could decline in the future for a variety of reasons, including as a result of termination or non-renewal of our inventory recovery agreements. Alternatively, if the economy improves, our members may be less likely to fail to pay their annual fees or default on their consumer loans. In addition, if a viable VOI resale market were to develop in the future, our members may choose to resell their interests to third parties. Further, in the event applicable state law makes it more difficult to recover points or intervals, it could extend the time required to consummate a recovery or otherwise make it more difficult to consummate such recoveries. An increased level of VOI sales would also reduce our inventory available for sale. If our inventory available for sale were to decline significantly, we may need to make significant capital expenditures to replenish our inventory by purchasing points or intervals or building or acquiring new resorts or additional rooms at existing resorts. Alternatively, we would need to substantially reduce the volume of our VOI sales. If the volume of our inventory of points held by us were to significantly increase, our carrying costs with respect to that inventory would increase. If VOI sales levels do not keep pace with inventory recovery levels, the volume of our inventory of points or intervals may become higher than desired. Also, if the amount of customer defaults increases and we repurchase more VOI inventory than desired pursuant to our inventory recovery agreements, our carrying costs will increase due to the maintenance fees on the recovered VOI inventory that we are required to pay. Our acquisitions of assets from ILX Resorts Incorporated, Tempus Resorts International, Ltd., Pacific Monarch Resorts, Inc. and Aegean Blue Holdings Plc and the Island One Acquisition, all completed since August 2010, have provided us with additional VOI inventory, and potential future acquisitions may include additional inventory. Further, as part of some of our recent acquisitions, we have incurred additional obligations to repurchase defaulted inventory (either by taking back defaulted consumer loans or repurchasing the inventory that collateralizes such loans). We incur carrying costs associated with our VOI inventory, as we are obligated to pay annual maintenance fees and assessments on any VOIs held in inventory, and higher-than-desired VOI inventory levels would result in increases in these carrying costs. If our inventory available for sale were to increase significantly, we may need to sell some of this excess inventory at significantly discounted prices. In addition, the inventory recovery agreements we enter into with the HOAs and Collections are subject to annual renewal, and as a result, we may not always repurchase VOI inventory from customers in default. If we do not repurchase such inventory, the annual maintenance fees and assessments are allocated among the remaining non-defaulting owners of units in the HOA and the Collection, increasing the amounts paid by each of those owners (including us, to the extent we hold units in inventory). This increases the risk that owners of such other units may be unwilling or unable to pay such increased fees and may default as well. The increased per-unit costs could also make units in the HOA and the Collection less attractive to prospective purchasers. 44 To the extent our rental proceeds may decline or our vacation interest carrying costs may increase, we may not be able to cover certain other expenditures against which we offset rental proceeds. Under our inventory recovery agreements, we are required to pay owners' past due maintenance and assessment fees to the HOAs and Collections for any VOIs that we have recovered. We are also obligated to pay to the HOAs and Collections cleaning fees for room stays incurred by our guests who stay with us on a per-night or per-week basis. See "Item 1. Business—Recovery of VOIs." In order to offset these expenses, we rent the available units. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our net vacation interest carrying costs, consisting of carrying costs related to the VOIs that we owned in each of these periods, less amounts generated from rental of these VOIs in each of these periods, was $41.3 million, $36.4 million and $41.3 million, respectively. Through The Diamond Luxury Selection, which we have recently begun to offer, participating members rent private luxury properties by depositing a designated number of points with us, and we pay a rental fee to the owners of these properties on behalf of our members. See "Item 1. Business—Our Resort Network—Diamond Luxury Selection." Similarly, under arrangements that we have with certain of our affiliated resorts, holders of our points or intervals who desire to stay at any such affiliated resort deposit points with us and, in exchange, we pay our affiliated resort the funds required to allow such holder access to the desired unit. In order to offset these payments to the owners of the luxury properties or the affiliated resorts, as applicable, we rent available units at our resorts. Our ability to rent units is subject to a variety of risks common to the hospitality industry, including competition from large and well-established hotels, changes in the number and occupancy and room rates for hotel rooms, seasonality and changes in the desirability of geographic regions of the resorts in our network. In addition, we experience strong competition in the rental market and are at a disadvantage when competing against larger and better-established hotel and resort chains that focus on the rental market, have more experience in and greater resources devoted to such market, and can offer rental customers additional benefits such as loyalty points related to rentals and a significantly larger pool of potentially available rental options. We utilize external exchange program affiliations as important sources of sales prospects and leads, and any failure to maintain such affiliations could reduce these prospects. We have an affiliation agreement for an external exchange program with Interval International, which complements our own internal vacation ownership exchange programs. As a result of this affiliation, members of THE Club may use their points to reserve the use of a vacation accommodation at more than 2,800 resorts worldwide that participate in Interval International. In addition, interval owners at our managed resorts may join either Interval International or RCI, as their HOA constitutions dictate. Such interval owners may then deposit their deeded intervals in exchange for an alternative vacation destination. When our points and intervals are exchanged through Interval International or RCI, this inventory is made available to owners from other resorts, who are potential customers for our VOI sales. If we do not maintain our external exchange program affiliations, the number of individuals exchanging interests through these programs to stay at our managed resorts may decline substantially. We are dependent on the managers of our affiliated resorts to ensure that those properties meet our customers' expectations. The members of the Clubs have access to all or a portion of the 210 affiliated resorts and hotels and four cruise itineraries in our network. We do not manage, own or operate these resorts, hotels or cruises, and we have limited or no ability to control their management and operations. If the managers of a significant number of those properties were to fail to maintain them in a manner consistent with our standards of quality, we may be subject to customer complaints and our reputation and brand could be damaged. In addition, our affiliation agreements with these resorts may expire, be terminated or not be renewed, or may be renegotiated in a manner adverse to us, and we may be unable to enter into new agreements that provide members of the Clubs with equivalent access to additional resorts.The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. There is not currently an active, organized or liquid resale market for VOIs, and resales of VOIs generally are made at sales prices substantially below their original customer purchase prices. These factors may make the initial purchase of a VOI less attractive to potential buyers who are concerned about their ability to resell their VOI. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our own VOI sales efforts. If the secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs (particularly where the VOIs are available for sale at lower prices than ours) could adversely affect our sales and our sales prices. Furthermore, the volume of VOI inventory that we recapture each year may decline if a viable secondary market develops. We are subject to certain risks associated with our management of resort properties. Through our management of resorts and ownership of VOIs, we are subject to certain risks related to the physical 45 condition and operation of the managed resort properties in our network, including: •the presence of construction or repair defects or other structural or building damage at any of these resorts, including resorts we may develop in the future; •any noncompliance with or liabilities under applicable environmental, health or safety regulations or requirements or building permit requirements relating to these resorts; •any damage resulting from natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and windstorms, which may increase in frequency or severity due to climate change or other factors; and •claims by employees, members and their guests for injuries sustained on these resort properties. Some of these risks may be more significant in connection with the properties for which we recently acquired management agreements, particularly those management agreements which were acquired from operators in financial distress. For additional risks related to our acquired businesses, see “Our strategic transactions may not be successful and may divert our management's attention and consume significant resources.” If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs as a result of any of the foregoing, we or the HOAs or Collections may be subject to significant costs. If an HOA or Collection is subject to any such loss, we will also be responsible for a portion of such loss to the extent of our ownership of VOIs in the resort or Collection, and any substantial assessments charged by the HOAs or Collections as a result of any of these items could cause customer dissatisfaction and harm our business and reputation. For example, in October 2011, the HOA of one of our managed resorts levied an assessment to the owner-families of that resort for water intrusion damage. The original amount of the assessment was $65.8 million, but, in connection with the settlement of a class action, the assessment was reduced to $60.9 million. For deeded inventory or Collection points held by us at the time of the assessment, we owed $9.7 million of the original assessment. Our assessment was subsequently reduced by $0.7 million. This assessment is payable in annual installments over five years. In addition, pursuant to the related class action settlement, we agreed to pay any amount of assessments defaulted on by owners in return for our recovery of the related VOIs. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." For any resorts in which we own common areas, we are directly subject to the risks set forth above.Additionally, a number of U.S. federal, state and local laws, including the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, impose requirements related to access to and use by disabled persons of a variety of public accommodations and facilities. A determination that our managed resorts are subject to, and that they are not in compliance with, these accessibility laws could result in a judicial order requiring compliance, imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If an HOA at one of our managed resorts was required to make significant improvements as a result of non-compliance with these accessibility laws, assessments might be needed to fund such improvements, which additional costs may cause our VOI owners to default on their consumer loans from us or cease making required HOA maintenance fee or assessment payments. Also, to the extent that we hold interests in a particular resort (directly or indirectly through our interests in a Collection), we would be responsible for our pro rata share of the costs of such improvements. In addition, any new legislation may impose further burdens or restrictions on property owners with respect to access by disabled persons.The resort properties that we manage are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability relating to the management, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other regulated materials and the cleanup of contaminated sites. The resorts are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern certain aspects of their ongoing operations. These laws and regulations control such things as the nature and volume of wastewater discharges, quality of water supply and waste management practices. To the extent that we hold interests in a particular resort (directly or indirectly through our interests in a Collection), we would be responsible for our pro rata share of losses sustained by such resort as a result of a violation of any such laws and regulations. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally applicable to our domestic operations, including risks related to difficult economic conditions in Europe. We manage resorts in 12 countries and have sales and marketing operations in 13 countries. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to a number of particular risks, including: •exposure to local economic conditions; •potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the U.S.; •hostility from local populations; 46 •restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; •the imposition of government policies and regulations against business and real estate ownership by foreigners; •foreign investment restrictions or requirements; •limitations on our ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; •regulations restricting the sale of VOIs, as described in “Business—Governmental Regulation;” •foreign exchange restrictions and the impact of exchange rates on our business; •conflicts between local laws and U.S. laws; •withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by our subsidiaries; and •change in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. In addition, Europe and certain European Union countries in particular, including France, Greece (where we added five resorts to our network of managed resorts pursuant to the Aegean Blue Acquisition described elsewhere in this report), Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, are experiencing high levels of unemployment, low rates of growth and other difficult economic conditions. These conditions could have a negative effect on the global economy as a whole and could have a negative effect on our managed resorts and sales and marketing operations located in Europe. If these conditions continue (particularly if they worsen), potential European customers for our VOIs and resort interests in Europe may have less disposable income available to spend on vacation ownership products, and may have difficulty obtaining financing. The marketing and sale of our points-based VOIs and our other operations in Europe are also subject to national regulation and legislation. The Directive regulates vacation ownership activities within the European Union (which includes the majority of the European countries in which we conduct our operations). The Directive required transposition into domestic legislation by the members of the European community no later than February 23, 2011 and replaced the previous regulatory framework introduced by EC Directive 94/47/EC. Most of our purchasers in Europe are residents of the United Kingdom, where the Directive has been implemented under The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. The Directive has been implemented in all the other member states in which we operate, as well as in Norway (which, although not a member of the European community, is a member of the European Economic Area). The Directive (i) requires delivery of specified disclosure (some of which must be provided in a specific format); (ii) requires a "cooling off" rescission period of 14 calendar days; and (iii) prohibits any advance payments in any member states. Our international business operations are also subject to various anti-corruption laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or generating business. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and procedures will always protect us from the reckless or criminal acts that may be committed by our employees or third parties with whom we work. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption laws in international jurisdictions, criminal or civil penalties could be imposed on us. We are exploring growth opportunities in new international markets in which we have limited experience, including developing markets in Asia and Latin America, which are challenging. We are exploring growth opportunities in geographic markets such as Asia (including China) and Latin America. We currently have affiliation agreements in place with a few resorts in Asia and Latin America, and may explore additional co-branding opportunities with existing resorts, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with local or regional operators in those markets. For example, in early 2013 we entered into a memorandum of understanding for a joint venture arrangement with Dorsett Hospitality International, a large hotel developer, owner and operator in Asia, pursuant to which we have added properties operated by Dorsett and its affiliated companies in China (including Hong Kong), Japan, Malaysia and Singapore to our network of affiliated resorts and hotels and have agreed to jointly market and sell vacation ownership products to potential customers in Asia. Alternatively, we may expand our footprint in such markets by pursuing acquisitions, similar to those we have completed recently, where we would acquire resort businesses consisting of management contracts, unsold VOI inventory and an existing membership base. In the event that we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and selling our products and services in those markets. Expansion into new and developing 47 international markets is challenging, requires significant management attention and financial resources and may require us to attract, retain and manage local offices or personnel in such markets. It also requires us to tailor our services and marketing to local markets and adapt to local cultures, languages, regulations and standards. To the extent we are unable to adapt, or to the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition targets or potential affiliates in such markets or to the extent that any such acquisition or existing or future relationships with affiliates in such markets are not as beneficial to us as we expect, our expansion may not be successful. In some of these markets, including China, the concept of vacation ownership is relatively novel. As a result, in these markets there is limited infrastructure and government support for the vacation ownership industry and the industry may lack sufficient mechanisms for consumer protection. There is also currently not a large supply of vacation ownership products and resorts in those markets, which may limit opportunities and increase competition for those limited opportunities. In addition, many countries in Asia and Latin America are emerging markets and are subject to greater political, economic, legal and social risks than more developed markets, including risks relating to: •political and governmental instability, including domestic political conflicts and inability to maintain consensus; •economic instability, including weak banking systems, inflation and currency risk, lack of capital, and changing or inconsistent economic policy; •weaknesses in legal systems, including inconsistent or uncertain national and local regimes, unavailability of judicial or administrative guidance and inexperience; •tax uncertainty, including tax law changes, limited tax guidance and difficulty determining tax liability or planning tax-efficient structures; •the lack of reliable official government statistics or reports; and•organized crime, money laundering and other crime. There are also risks related to entering into joint ventures or strategic alliances with local or regional operators, including the possibility that these operators might become bankrupt or fail to otherwise meet their obligations to us. These operators may also have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. In addition, we may, in some circumstances, be liable for the actions of our partners. Furthermore, if we do enter into joint ventures or other affiliations with local or regional operators and a significant number of such operators fail to maintain their properties or provide services in a manner consistent with our standards of quality, we may be subject to customer complaints and our reputation and brand could be damaged. To the extent we expand into new international markets, our exposure to the risks described above in “Our international operations are subject to risks not generally applicable to our domestic operations, including risks related to difficult economic conditions in Europe” will also increase. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The vacation ownership industry is highly competitive. We compete with various high profile and well-established operators, some of which have substantially greater liquidity and financial resources than we do. Some of these operators also have substantially greater experience and familiarity with emerging international markets, such as Latin America and Asia, in which we intend to explore opportunities. Many of the world's most recognized lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies develop and sell VOIs in resort properties. Major companies that now operate or are developing or planning to develop vacation ownership resorts directly or through subsidiaries include Four Seasons Resorts, Hilton Hotels Corporation, Hyatt Corporation, Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation, Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc., The Walt Disney Company, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation and Bluegreen Corporation. We also compete with numerous other smaller owners and operators of vacation ownership resorts, as well as alternative lodging companies, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, which operate websites that market available furnished, privately-owned residential properties in locations throughout the world, including homes and condominiums, that can be rented on a nightly, weekly or monthly basis. Additionally, due to the recent economic climate, many competitors have had difficulty maintaining their highly-leveraged, development-focused business models and have begun to increase their focus on sales of VOIs and provision of management services. Furthermore, a number of our competitors, including companies with well-known brand names in the hospitality industry, have adopted strategies and product offerings comparable to ours, such as by offering points-based VOI systems, thereby reducing our competitive advantage. Our competitors could also seek to compete against us based on the pricing terms of our current 48 hospitality management contracts or in our efforts to expand our fee based income streams by pursuing new management contracts for resorts that are not currently part of our network. We may not be able to compete successfully for customers, and increased competition could result in price reductions and reduced margins, as well as adversely affect our efforts to maintain and increase our market share.Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had $374.4 million in principal amount outstanding under the Senior Secured Notes, $411.3 million of non-recourse indebtedness in securitization notes and borrowings of our subsidiaries and $3.3 million of other recourse indebtedness, for total principal indebtedness of $789.1 million (excluding original issue discounts). On September 11, 2013, we entered into a $25.0 million revolving credit facility with an affiliate of Credit Suisse AG, acting as administrative agent for a group of lenders (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences, including the following: •our level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business and limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; •our level of indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt covenants could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness; •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, restructuring, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, which could be exacerbated by further volatility in the credit markets; and •our level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our future financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, may be subject to legal and contractual restrictions that could complicate or impede our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Secured Notes and our other indebtedness. If we are unable to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face, as described above, could intensify. The terms of our debt covenants could limit how we conduct our business and our ability to raise additional funds. The Notes Indenture, the Revolving Credit Facility and the agreements governing other debt obligations contain, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; •create liens on our assets; •pay dividends or make other equity distributions; •purchase or redeem equity interests or subordinated debt; •make certain investments; •sell assets; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and 49 •engage in transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants, we could be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our business plan historically has depended on our ability to sell, securitize or borrow against the consumer loans that we generate, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted if we are unable to do so in the future. We generally offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to qualified customers who purchase VOIs through our U.S., Mexican and St. Maarten sales centers, and a significant portion of customers choose to take advantage of this opportunity. For example, from October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013, we financed approximately 72.3% of the total amount of our VOI sales. Our ability to borrow against or sell our consumer loans has been an important element of our continued liquidity, and our inability to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flow. Furthermore, our ability to generate sales of VOIs to customers who require or desire financing may be impaired to the extent we are unable to borrow against such loans on acceptable terms. In the past, we have sold or securitized a substantial portion of the consumer loans we originated from our customers. If we are unable to continue to participate in securitization transactions or generate liquidity and create capacity on our conduit facilities and the Quorum Facility, as defined below (collectively, the “Funding Facilities”), on acceptable terms, our liquidity and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, if we cannot offer financing to our customers who purchase VOIs through our U.S., Mexican and St. Maarten sales centers, our sales will be adversely affected.Additionally, we have historically relied on conduit and, more recently, loan sale financing facilities to provide working capital for our operations. Both conduit and loan sale financings are asset-backed commercial finance facilities either secured by, or funded through the sale of, our consumer loans. The initial maturities of our consumer loans are typically 10 years, as compared to the 364-day term of a typical conduit facility, which provides us with greater liquidity. Our conduit facility entered into on November 3, 2008 (as amended and extended, the “Conduit Facility”) presently has a 24-month term that expires on April 10, 2015 and is annually renewable for 364-day terms at the election of the lenders. Our loan sale facility with Quorum Federal Credit Union (“Quorum”) that became effective on April 30, 2010 (as amended and restated, the “Quorum Facility”) has a funding term ending on December 31, 2015, which may be extended by Quorum for additional one-year periods. If we are unable to extend or refinance our existing conduit or loan sale facilities by securitizing our consumer loan receivables or entering into new conduit or loan sale facilities, our ability to access sufficient working capital to fund our operations may be materially adversely affected and we may be required to curtail our sales, marketing and consumer finance operations. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Liquidity and Capital Resources" for additional information. To the extent that our conduit facility, loan sale facility, the Revolving Credit Facility and operating cash flow are not sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, our ability to sustain our existing operations will be impaired.We may be unable to raise additional capital we need to grow our business. We may need to raise additional capital to expand our operations and pursue our growth strategies, including potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, and to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Prior to the IPO, we relied upon affiliates of certain of our major equity holders to provide debt financing for strategic acquisitions. However, these entities may not provide such financing in the future, and we may not otherwise be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely affect our existing operations. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Our credit underwriting standards may prove to be inadequate, and we could incur substantial losses if the customers we finance default on their obligations. In addition, we rely on certain third-party lenders to provide financing to purchasers of our VOIs in Europe, and the loss of these customer financing sources could harm our business. We generally offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to qualified purchasers of VOIs sold through our U.S., Mexican and St. Maarten sales centers. There is no assurance that the credit underwriting system we utilize as part of our domestic consumer finance activities will result in acceptable default rates or otherwise ensure the continued performance of our consumer loan portfolio. The default rate on our consumer loan portfolio was 5.7% (as a percentage of our outstanding originated portfolios) for 2013, and ranged from 5.7% to 8.6% on an annual basis from 2009 through 2013. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 5.6% (based on loan balance) of our VOI consumer loans that we held, or which third parties held under sales transactions, and that were not in default (which we define as having occurred upon the earlier of (i) the completion of 50 cancellation or foreclosure proceedings or (ii) the customer’s account becoming over 180 days delinquent) were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have personal recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans. Even where permitted, attempting to recover a personal judgment may not be advisable due to the associated legal costs and the potential adverse publicity. Historically, we have generally not pursued personal recourse against our customers, even when available. If we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, we traditionally have foreclosed on the customer's VOI or terminated the underlying contract and remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the often significant marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale, and we will have to incur a portion of such costs again to resell the VOI. See “The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business” for additional risks related to the resale of VOIs. Currently, portions of our consumer loan portfolio are concentrated in certain geographic regions within the U.S. As of December 31, 2013, our loans to California, Arizona and Florida residents constituted 28.6%, 8.9% and 5.9% of our consumer loan portfolio, respectively. No other state or foreign country concentration accounted for in excess of 5.0% of our consumer loan portfolio. Some of these states have been particularly negatively impacted during the economic downturn in recent years, for example, the real estate market in Florida continues to experience the highest rate of foreclosure filings in the U.S., and unemployment rates in California remain high. Any deterioration of the economic condition and financial well-being of the regions in which we have significant loan concentration could adversely affect our consumer loan portfolio. We could incur material losses if there is a significant increase in the delinquency rate applicable to our portfolio of consumer loans. An increased level of delinquencies could result from changes in economic or market conditions, increases in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and other factors beyond our control. Increased delinquencies could also result from our inability to evaluate accurately the credit worthiness of the customers to whom we extend financing. If default rates for our borrowers were to increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses. In addition, increased delinquency rates may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our consumer loans to reduce the amount of availability under our conduit or loan sale facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, our cost of financing would increase, and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Under the terms of our securitization facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables. Moreover, under the terms of our securitization facilities, in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds, we may be required to pay substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the underlying receivable portfolios sold to the parties who purchased the receivables from us. Finally, we rely on certain third-party lenders to provide consumer financing for sales of our VOIs in Europe. If these lenders discontinue providing such financing, or materially change the terms of such financing, we would be required to find an alternative means of financing for our customers in Europe. If we failed to find another lender, our VOI sales in Europe may decline. Changes in interest rates may increase our borrowing costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. We rely on the securitization markets to provide liquidity for our consumer finance operations. Increases in interest rates, changes in the financial markets and other factors could increase the costs of our securitization financings, prevent us from accessing the securitization markets and otherwise reduce our ability to obtain the funds required for our consumer financing operations. To the extent interest rates increase and to the extent legally permitted, we may be required to increase the rates we charge our customers to finance their purchases of VOIs. Our business and results of operations are dependent on the ability of our customers to finance their purchase of VOIs, and in the U.S. we believe we are currently the only generally available lending source to directly finance the sales of our VOIs. Limitations on our ability to provide financing to our customers at acceptable rates or increases in the cost of such financing could reduce our sales of VOIs. Changes in the U.S. tax and other laws and regulations may adversely affect our business. The U.S. government may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant adverse effect on our business, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our international operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. For example, the effective tax rates for most U.S. companies reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. If such increases resulted from our status as a U.S. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. 51 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including as a result of the ongoing European debt crisis, may affect our reported results of operations. In addition to our operations in the U.S., we conduct operations in international markets from which we receive, at least in part, revenues in foreign currencies. For example, we receive Euros and British Pound Sterling in connection with our European managed resorts and European VOI sales and Mexican Pesos in connection with our operations in Mexico. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of the Euro and British Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar have had and will continue to have an effect, which may be significant, on our reported financial results. The ongoing European debt crisis, coupled with the policy actions taken by European central banks to support their financial system, have caused exchange rates to remain volatile. Concerns persist regarding the ability of European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, the overall stability of the Euro and the suitability of the Euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Euro zone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the Euro currency entirely. A decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies in which we receive revenues, including the Euro, British Pound Sterling or Mexican Peso, against the U.S. dollar will tend to reduce our reported revenues and expenses, while an increase in the value of any such foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to increase our reported revenues and expenses. Variations in exchange rates can significantly affect the comparability of our financial results between financial periods. We are also exploring international expansion opportunities in markets such as Asia and Latin America, including pursuing acquisitions in those geographic areas, or seeking out co-branding opportunities, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with local or regional operators in those markets. Any such international expansion would result in increased foreign exchange risk, as described above, as the revenue received from such expansion would primarily be in non-U.S. currency. We are subject to extensive regulation relating to the marketing and sale of vacation interests and the servicing and collection of customer loans. Our marketing and sale of VOIs and our other operations are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and state timeshare laws and, in some cases, by the foreign jurisdictions where our VOIs are located, marketed and sold. Federal legislation that is or may be applicable to the sale, marketing and financing of our VOIs includes but is not limited to the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and Regulation C, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act, Section 501 of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act and the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, 1968 and 1991. In addition, the majority of states and jurisdictions where our resorts are located extensively regulate the creation and management of vacation ownership properties, the marketing and sale of VOIs, the escrow of purchaser funds and other property prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum describing the sale of VOIs and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site vacation interest plan reservation systems. For example, certain state regulations applicable to the vacation ownership industry impose limitations on the amount of fees that we may charge the HOAs and Collections for hospitality management services. Many other states and certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation and regulations affecting the marketing and sale of VOIs to persons located in those jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser of an interest the right to rescind a purchase contract during the specified rescission period provided by law. The Collections are required to register pursuant to applicable statutory requirements for the sale of VOI plans in an increasing number of jurisdictions. For example, certain of our subsidiaries are required to register pursuant to the Florida Vacation Plan and Timesharing Act. Such registrations, or any formal exemption determinations for the Collections, confirm the substantial compliance with the filing and disclosure requirements of the respective timeshare statutes by the applicable Collection. They do not constitute the endorsement of the creation, sale, promotion or operation of the Collections by the regulatory body, nor relieve us or our affiliates of any duty or responsibility under other statutes or any other applicable laws. Registration under a respective timeshare act is not a guarantee or assurance of compliance with applicable law nor an assurance or guarantee of how any judicial body may interpret the Collections' compliance with such laws. A determination that specific provisions or operations of the Collections do not comply with relevant timeshare acts or applicable law may have a material adverse effect on us, the trustees of the Collections, the Collection associations or the related consumer loans. Such noncompliance could also adversely affect the operation of the Collections or the sale of points within the existing format of the Collections, which would likely increase costs of operations or the risk of losses resulting from defaulted consumer loans. 52 Furthermore, most states have other laws that apply to our activities, including real estate licensure laws, travel sales licensure laws, advertising laws, anti-fraud laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws and labor laws. In addition, we are required to monitor DNC lists for every state into which we make telemarketing calls, as well as the federal DNC list, and are required to drop from our call lists the phone numbers of any individuals who are registered with such lists. Enforcement of the federal DNC provisions began in the fall of 2003, and the rule provides for fines of up to $16,000 per violation. We also maintain an internal DNC list as required by law. Our master DNC list is comprised of our internal list, the federal DNC list and the applicable state DNC lists. In addition to government regulation relating to the marketing and sales of VOIs, our servicing and collection of consumer loans is subject to regulation by the federal government and the states in which such activities are conducted. These regulations may include the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collections Practice Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation B, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Florida Consumer Collection Practices Act, the Nevada Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar legislation in other states.From time to time, potential buyers of VOIs assert claims with applicable regulatory agencies against our vacation interest salespersons for unlawful sales practices. These claims could have adverse implications for us that could result in negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. Prior to October 2008, a portion of our sales in the U.S. were made through independent sales agents who provided services to us under independent contractor agreements. From October 2008 to April 2011, we sold VOIs in the U.S. solely through our employees, with the exception of two locations, where we conducted sales through a contractual relationship with a third-party operator. The contract with the third-party operator was terminated in April 2011 and we currently sell VOIs in the U.S. solely through our employees. In Europe, we currently sell VOIs through employees and third-party sales agents. In the event the federal, state or local taxing authorities in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions were to successfully classify such independent contractors or sales agents as our employees, rather than as independent contractors, we could be liable for back payroll taxes, termination indemnities and potential claims related to employee benefits, as required by local law. A number of U.S. federal, state and local laws, including the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, impose requirements related to access to and use by disabled persons of a variety of public accommodations and facilities. A determination that we are subject to and that we are not in compliance with these accessibility laws could result in a judicial order requiring compliance, imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If an HOA at a resort was required to make significant improvements as a result of non-compliance with these accessibility laws, assessments might be needed to fund such improvements, which additional costs might cause owners of VOIs to default on their loans or cease making required HOA assessment payments. In addition, the HOA under these circumstances may pursue the resort developer to recover the cost of any corrective measures. Any new legislation may impose further burdens or restrictions on property owners with respect to access by disabled persons. To the extent that we hold interests in a particular resort (directly or indirectly through our interests in a Collection), we would be responsible for our pro rata share of the costs of improvements resulting from non-compliance with accessibility laws. The marketing and sale of our points-based VOIs and our other operations in Europe are subject to national regulation and legislation. The Directive regulates vacation ownership activities within the European Union (which includes the majority of the European countries in which we conduct our operations). The Directive required transposition into domestic legislation by the members of the European Union no later than February 23, 2011 and replaced the previous regulatory framework introduced by EC Directive 94/47/EC. Most of our purchasers in Europe are residents of the United Kingdom, where the Directive has been implemented under The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. The Directive (i) requires delivery of specified disclosure (some of which must be provided in a specified format); (ii) requires a “cooling off” rescission period of 14 calendar days; and (iii) prohibits any advance payments in all member states. Other United Kingdom laws which are applicable to us include the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006, the Consumer Credit (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2010, the Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010 (as amended), the Misrepresentation Act 1967, the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (as amended), the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC) Regulations 2003, the Equality Act 2010, the Employment Rights Act 1996, the Environmental Protection Act 1990, the Clean Air Act 1993, the Companies Act 2006 and the Trade Descriptions Act 1968. All of the countries in which we operate have consumer and other laws that regulate our activities in those countries.Depending on the provisions of applicable law and the specific facts and circumstances involved, violations of these laws, policies or principles may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest due on our consumer loans, may entitle certain customers to refund of amounts previously paid and could subject us to penalties, damages and administrative sanctions, and may also impair our ability to commence cancellation and forfeiture proceedings on our VOIs. 53 We are a party to certain litigation matters and are subject to additional litigation risk. From time to time, we or our subsidiaries are subject to certain legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims or proceedings relating to our VOI sales, consumer finance business and hospitality and management services operations. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Any adverse outcome in any litigation involving us or any of our affiliates could negatively impact our business, reputation and financial condition. Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us. In connection with our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of personally identifiable information, including credit card numbers of our customers and other personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches, including a recent case in which payment card data of a company's customers were stolen, provides evidence of the serious threats to information security. Our customers and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Protecting against security breaches, including cyber-security attacks, is an increasing challenge, and penetrated or compromised data systems or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data. It is possible that our security controls over personally identifiable information, our training of employees on data security and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information that we store and manage. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or employee information could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation.Our reputation and financial condition may be harmed by system failures and computer viruses. We maintain a proprietary hospitality management and sales system, as well as reservation systems related to our internal vacation ownership exchange programs. The performance and reliability of these systems and our technology is critical to our reputation and ability to attract, retain and service our customers. Any system error or failure may significantly delay response times or even cause our systems to fail, resulting in the unavailability of our services. Any disruption in our ability to provide the use of our reservation system to the purchasers of our VOIs, including as a result of software or hardware issues related to the reservation system, could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation and business. In addition, a significant portion of our reservations are made through the online reservation system that we operate on behalf of the Collections and the Clubs as opposed to over the phone, and our costs are significantly lower in connection with bookings through the online reservation system. As a result, if our online reservation system is unavailable for any reason, our costs will increase. Further, without the benefits of that reservation system, the marketability of our VOIs may decline, and our members may choose to withhold payments or default on their VOI loans. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to certain events beyond our control, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire and flood, power loss, telecommunication failures, data and other security breaches, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any interruption, delay or system failure could result in financial losses, customer claims and litigation and damage to our reputation. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our failure to protect those rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights, including existing and future trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. We believe that our proprietary technology, as well as our other technologies and business practices, are competitive advantages and that any duplication by competitors would harm our business. The measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. Additionally, intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter others from developing similar technologies. Finally, even if we are able to successfully protect our intellectual property, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. We are required to make a number of significant judgments in applying our accounting policies, and our use of different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reported financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in accounting standards or their interpretation could significantly impact our reported results of operations. Our accounting policies are critical to the manner in which we present our results of operations and financial condition. Many of these policies, including with respect to the recognition of revenue and determination of vacation interest cost of sales under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 978, “Real Estate-Time-Sharing Activities" ("ASC 978"), are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and 54 Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates." We are required to review these estimates regularly and revise them when necessary. Our actual results of operations vary from period to period based on revisions to these estimates. In addition, the regulatory bodies that establish accounting and reporting standards, including the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and the American Institute of CPAs, periodically revise or issue new financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Changes to these standards or their interpretation could significantly impact our reported results in future periods.We are dependent upon Hospitality Management and Consulting Service, LLC ("HM&C") and its personnel to provide services to us through the HM&C Agreement, and we may not find suitable replacements if this agreement is terminated or if any such personnel cease to be employed by HM&C. Our executive officers and approximately 54 officers and employees are not employed or directly compensated by us, but are instead employed, or otherwise engaged as independent contractors, and compensated by HM&C, a company beneficially owned by Mr. Cloobeck, our founder and Chairman. Pursuant to a services agreement that we entered into with HM&C effective as of December 31, 2010 (as amended and restated effective as of December 31, 2012, the “HM&C Agreement”), HM&C provides certain services to us, including the services of Messrs. Cloobeck, Palmer, Bentley and Lanznar. We depend on HM&C to ensure that the services of these individuals are and will remain available to us. Our success will depend upon the efforts, experience and skills of the personnel made available to us by HM&C and, except for Messrs. Cloobeck and Palmer, we do not have the right to require HM&C to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us. Under the HM&C Agreement, we are required to make certain payments to HM&C that are reviewed and approved by our board of directors. However, we do not have the right to allocate the aggregate payments we make to HM&C among individual HM&C employees. As a result, we are unable to ensure that each of the HM&C personnel made available to us is appropriately compensated, and we may face difficulties in establishing appropriate incentive compensation and retention arrangements for the benefit of HM&C's personnel. In addition, under the HM&C Agreement, HM&C is entitled to terminate the employment of its employees at any time and for any reason. The departure of any of the key personnel of HM&C could have a material adverse effect on our performance. The HM&C Agreement has an initial term that is set to expire on December 31, 2015, and thereafter automatically renews for successive annual periods unless terminated by us or HM&C. However, the HM&C Agreement will automatically terminate if (i) Mr. Cloobeck no longer serves as our Chairman (or similar position) or (ii) our company undergoes a change of control (as defined in the HM&C Agreement), and each party is also entitled to terminate the agreement upon a material breach by or insolvency of the non-terminating party. If the HM&C Agreement is terminated and we are unable to replace the services provided to us by HM&C, we may not be able to execute our business plan. In addition, upon any termination of the HM&C Agreement, the executive officers and other professionals covered thereby would be free to work for our competitors or to otherwise compete with us. The HM&C Agreement was not negotiated on an arm's-length basis and may not be as favorable to us if it had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. The HM&C Agreement was negotiated between related parties, and its terms, including the fees payable to HM&C, may not be as favorable to us if it had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. The terms of the HM&C Agreement may not reflect our best interest and may be overly favorable to HM&C, including with respect to the substantial payments that may become payable to HM&C under the HM&C Agreement. Further, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the HM&C Agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with HM&C. Our directors and executive officers may have interests that could conflict with those of our stockholders. In addition to the services agreement with HM&C discussed above, there are a number of other relationships and transactions between our company and entities associated with our executive officers and directors. These relationships and transactions, and the financial interests of our executive officers and directors in the entities party to these relationships and transactions, may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest, when these executive officers and directors are faced with decisions involving those other entities. See "Note 6— Transactions with Related Parties" of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for further detail on these relationships and transactions.Our strategic transactions may not be successful and may divert our management's attention and consume significant resources. We intend to continue our strategy of selectively pursuing complementary strategic transactions. We may also purchase management contracts, including from resort operators facing financial distress, and purchase VOI inventory at resorts that we 55 do not manage, with the goal of acquiring sufficient VOI ownership at such a resort to become the manager of that resort. The successful execution of this strategy will depend on our ability to identify opportunities for potential acquisitions that fit within our capital-light business model, enter into the agreements necessary to take advantage of these potential opportunities and obtain any necessary financing. We may not be able to do so successfully. In addition, our management may be required to devote substantial time and resources to pursue these opportunities, which may impact their ability to manage our operations effectively. Acquisitions involve numerous additional risks, including: (i) difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of an acquired business; (ii) potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management from our day-to-day operations; (iii) difficulty entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have a stronger market position; (iv) difficulty maintaining the quality of services that we have historically provided across new acquisitions; (v) potential legal and financial responsibility for liabilities of acquired businesses; (vi) overpayment for the acquired company or assets; (vii) increased expenses associated with completing an acquisition and amortizing any acquired intangible assets; and (viii) challenges in implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout an acquired business. Most of our acquisitions have focused on acquiring management contracts and related businesses of operators in financial distress or in bankruptcy at the time of such acquisition. We may continue to pursue similar acquisitions. As a result, we are subject to additional risks, including risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy proceedings, the risk that such properties will be in disrepair and require significant investment in order to bring them up to our quality standards, potential exposure to adverse developments in the receivable portfolios that we acquire or agree to manage and limitations on our ability to finance such transactions. We cannot assure you that our growth strategy will be successful, and our failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. We also intend to expand our business-to-business services provided to resorts in our affiliated resort networks. We cannot assure you that our attempts to expand business-to-business services will be successful, and our failure to expand such services could harm our business and our relationships with those affiliated resorts. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common StockThe concentration of our capital stock ownership with members of management and our Board of Directors and related entities, together with the Director Designation Agreement and the Stockholders Agreement, will limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters, including the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.Of the outstanding shares of common stock, members of management and our Board of Directors and related entities, together hold approximately 34.3% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, entities controlled by Stephen J. Cloobeck, our founder and Chairman, hold approximately 23.5% of our outstanding common stock, entities controlled by Lowell D. Kraff, our Vice Chairman, hold approximately 4.3% of our outstanding common stock, and entities controlled by David F. Palmer, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, hold approximately 5.2% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, in connection with the Reorganization Transactions, certain members of management and our Board of Directors and other stockholders that collectively hold approximately 52.9% of our outstanding common stock have entered into a Stockholders’ Agreement (the “Stockholders Agreement”) with us, pursuant to which such parties have agreed, subject to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, in any election of members of our Board of Directors, to vote their shares of our common stock in favor of our Chief Executive Officer, and individuals designated by DRP Holdco, LLC, one of our significant investors (the "Guggenheim Investor"), as well as an entity controlled by our founder and Chairman, pursuant to a director designation agreement (the “Director Designation Agreement”) among us and certain stockholders party to the Stockholders Agreement.As a result of their collective ownership of a majority of our outstanding capital stock, members of management and our Board of Directors, including Messrs. Cloobeck, Kraff and Palmer, and related entities have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. The parties to the Stockholders Agreement, including members of management and our Board of Directors and related entities, control the election of our Board of Directors. This influence and control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions impossible without the support of such individuals and entities. 56 We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements applicable to non-controlled companies.As a result of the Director Designation Agreement and the Stockholders Agreement, the parties to the Stockholders Agreement constitute a group that beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock (our only class of voting capital stock). As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the rules of the NYSE, a company of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain stock exchange corporate governance requirements, including:• the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors;• the requirement that nominating and corporate governance matters be decided solely by a nominating/corporate governance committee consisting of independent directors; and• the requirement that employee and officer compensation matters be decided by a compensation committee consisting of independent directors.We currently utilize these exemptions and, as a result, will not have a majority of independent directors nor will our nominating/corporate governance and compensation functions be decided solely by committees consisting solely of independent directors. Accordingly, stockholders do not have the same protections as stockholders of a company that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.We are an “emerging growth company” and have availed ourselves of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. We have taken advantage of, and we plan in future filings with the SEC to continue to take advantage of, certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of certain golden parachute payments. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we will cease being an emerging growth company upon the earliest to occur of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three year period; and (iii) the last day of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of such year.If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation.Prior to July 2011, we did not file reports with the SEC. Since our subsidiary, DRC, became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, we were required to enhance our internal control environment to align our procedures with those required of a SEC reporting company. As a SEC reporting company, we are required to, among other things, maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting, which requires annual management and, once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, independent registered public accounting firm assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Over the past few years, we have dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to implement our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures, and have had to retain additional finance and accounting personnel with the skill sets that we need as a SEC reporting company. Substantial work may continue to be required, to implement, document, assess, test and remediate our system of internal controls. We may also need to retain additional finance and accounting personnel in the future.Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public 57 companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.If our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, if we are not able to issue our financial statements in a timely manner or if we are not able to obtain the required audit or review of our financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm in a timely manner, we will not be able to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the SEC and the listing requirements of the NYSE. If these events occur, our common stock listing on the NYSE could be suspended or terminated and our stock price could materially suffer. In addition, we or members of our management could be subject to investigation and sanction by the SEC and other regulatory authorities and to stockholder lawsuits, which could impose significant additional costs on us and divert management attention.Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us.Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These include provisions that:• classify our Board of Directors;• limit stockholders’ ability to remove directors;• include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and• prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent or calling special meetings.The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our Board of Directors, our amended and restated bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. This means that the above provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated bylaws, cannot at this time be amended or repealed without the consent of members of management and our Board of Directors, including Messrs. Cloobeck, Kraff and Palmer, and related entities.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for some litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternate forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer to us or our stockholders or creditors, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or other stockholders.A more active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop.Since the closing of the IPO, there has been relatively limited trading volume in the market for our common stock, and a more active, liquid public trading market may not develop or may not be sustained. Limited liquidity in the trading market for our common stock may adversely affect a stockholder's ability to sell its shares of common stock at the time it wishes to sell them or at a price that it considers acceptable. If a more active, liquid public trading market does not develop, we may be limited in our ability to raise capital by selling shares of common stock and our ability to acquire other companies or assets by using shares of our common stock as consideration. 58 Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and such volatility may be exacerbated by our relatively small public float. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including:•variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;•actions by us or our competitors, such as sales initiatives, acquisitions or restructurings;•changes in our earnings estimates or expectations as to our future financial performance, as well as financial estimates by securities analysts and investors, and our ability to meet or exceed those estimates or expectations;•additions or departures of key management personnel;•legal proceedings involving our company, our industry, or both;•changes in our capitalization, including future issuances of our common stock or the incurrence of additional indebtedness;•changes in market valuations of companies similar to ours;•the prospects of the industry in which we operate;•actions by institutional and other stockholders;•speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general;•general economic, market and political conditions; and•other risks, uncertainties and factors described in this annual report.The stock markets in general have often experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type may be expensive to defend and may divert our management's attention and resources from the operation of our business.Future sales of common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market. These sales, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.The shares of common stock sold in the IPO are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), except for any shares of common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, the sale of which will be restricted under the Securities Act. The remainder of the shares of common stock outstanding, to the extent not sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, constitute "restricted securities" that may be resold in compliance with applicable provisions of Rule 144. The holding period for such "restricted securities" for purposes of resale pursuant to Rule 144 was generally satisfied, and the restrictions on transfers of shares of common stock pursuant to lock-up agreements entered into by our directors and executive officers and other holders of common stock in connection with the IPO lapsed, in each case, in January 2014. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, there could be an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. 59 Also in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with investments or acquisitions. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could be material.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the stock price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor community, one or more of the analysts who cover our company may change their recommendations regarding ourcompany and our stock price could decline.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.