D. Risk Factors The following risks should be considered in conjunction with “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review” beginning on page 38 and the other risks described in the Safe Harbor Statement beginning on page 70. These risks may affect our operating results and, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from past and anticipated future results. The following discussion of risks may contain forward-looking statements which are intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor Statement beginning on page 70. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. We invite you to consult any further related disclosures we make from time to time in materials filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations Global economic conditions impact our businesses. Our earnings and financial position are and will continue to be influenced by various macroeconomic factors—including increases or decreases in gross domestic product, the level of consumer and business confidence, changes in interest rates on consumer and business credit, energy prices, and the cost of commodities or other raw materials—which exist in the various countries in which we operate. Such macroeconomic factors vary from time to time and their effect on our earnings and financial position cannot be specifically and singularly assessed and/or isolated. Financial conditions in several regions continue to place significant economic pressures on existing and potential customers, including our dealer networks. As a result, some dealers and customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Further, our suppliers may be impacted by economic pressures, which may adversely affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. These factors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable, defaults and inventory challenges. There is particular concern about economic conditions in Europe (and potentially the long-term viability of the euro currency), which is at risk of being impacted by sovereign debt levels (and government taxing and spending actions to address such issues) and other severe pressures on the banking system in certain European Union countries. It is uncertain whether central bank or governmental measures will reduce or eliminate this risk. In addition, other governments may continue to implement measures designed to slow the economic growth rate in those countries (e.g., higher interest rates, reduced bank lending and other anti-inflation measures). If there is significant deterioration in the global economy or the economies of key countries or regions, the demand for our products and services would likely decrease and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents In addition, the continuation of adverse market conditions in certain businesses in which we participate could cause many companies, including us, to carefully evaluate whether certain of our intangible assets have become impaired. The factors that we would evaluate to determine whether an impairment charge is necessary require management judgment and estimates. The estimates are impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, worldwide economic factors and technological changes. Any of these factors, or other unexpected factors, may require us to consider whether we need to record an impairment charge. In the event we are required to record an impairment charge with respect to certain of our intangible assets, it would have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks as a result of operating a global business. We manufacture and sell products and offer services in several continents and numerous countries around the world. Given the global nature of our activities, we are exposed to risks affecting global business operations, including: • changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect, among other things: • import and export duties and quotas; • currency restrictions; • the design, manufacture and sale of our products, including, for example, engine emissions regulations; • interest rates and the availability of credit to our dealers and customers; • property and contractual rights; • where and to whom products may be sold, such as changing economic sanctions related to Iran, Russia and the crisis in Ukraine; and • taxes; • regulations from changing world organization initiatives and agreements; • changes in the dynamics of the industries and markets in which we operate; • varying and unpredictable needs and desires of customers; • varying and unexpected actions of our competitors; • labor disruptions; • disruption in the supply of raw materials and components; • changes in governmental debt relief and subsidy program policies in certain significant markets such as Argentina and Brazil; and • war, civil unrest and terrorism. Unfavorable developments in any one of these areas (which vary from country to country) could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. Difficulty in obtaining financing or refinancing existing debt could impact our financial performance. Our future performance will depend on, among other things, our ability to finance debt repayment obligations and planned investments from operating cash flow, available liquidity, the renewal or refinancing of existing bank loans and/or facilities and possible access to capital markets or other sources of financing. A decline in revenues could have a negative impact on the cash-generating capacity of our operating activities. We could, therefore, find ourselves in the position of having to seek additional financing and/or having to refinance existing debt, including in unfavorable market conditions with limited availability of funding and a general increase in funding costs. Any difficulty in obtaining financing could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to access the capital markets or other forms of financing and related costs are highly dependent, among other things, on the credit ratings of CNH Industrial, CNH Industrial Capital LLC and our ABS and facilities transactions. Rating agencies may review and revise their ratings from time to time, and any downgrade or other negative action with respect to our credit ratings by one or more rating agencies may increase our cost of capital, potentially limit our access to sources of financing and have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate changes and other market risks. We operate in numerous markets worldwide, and are accordingly exposed to market risks stemming from fluctuations in currency and interest rates. The exposure to currency risk is mainly linked to the differences in the geographic distribution between our manufacturing and commercial activities, resulting in cash flows from exports denominated in currencies different from those associated with production activities and related purchasing. We use various forms of financing to cover the funding requirements of our Industrial Activities and for financing offered to customers and dealers. Financial Services implements a matching policy to offset the impact of differences in rates of interest on the financed portfolio and related liabilities. Nevertheless, any future changes in interest rates can result in increases or decreases in revenues, finance costs and margins. Consistent with our risk management policies, we seek to manage currency and interest rate risk through the use of financial hedging instruments. Despite such hedges being in place, sudden fluctuations in currency or interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We are also subject to the risk of insolvency of dealers and customers, as well as unfavorable economic conditions in markets where these activities are carried out, which we seek to mitigate through credit policies applied to dealers and customers. In addition, we are subject to laws and government actions that may, among other things, prevent us from enforcing legal rights and remedies. We face risks associated with our relationships with our employees. In many countries where we operate, our employees are protected by various laws and/or collective labor agreements that guarantee them, through local and national representatives, the right of consultation on specific matters, including downsizing or closure of production activities and reductions in personnel. Laws and/or collective labor agreements applicable to us could impair our flexibility in reshaping and/or strategically repositioning our business activities. Therefore, our ability to reduce personnel or implement other permanent or temporary redundancy measures is subject to government approvals and/or the agreement of labor unions where such laws and agreements are applicable. Industrial action by employees could also have an adverse impact on our business activities. Reduced demand for equipment would reduce our sales and profitability. The performance of the agricultural equipment market is influenced, in particular, by factors such as: • the price of agricultural commodities and the relative level of inventories; • the profitability of agricultural enterprises; • the demand for food products; and • agricultural policies, including aid and subsidies to agricultural enterprises provided by governments and/or supranational organizations as well as alternative fuel mandates. In addition, unfavorable climatic conditions, especially during the spring, a particularly important period for generating sales orders, could have a negative impact on decisions to buy agricultural equipment and, consequently, on our revenues. 7 Table of Contents The performance of the construction equipment market is influenced, in particular, by factors such as: • public infrastructure spending; and • new residential and non-residential construction. The performance of the commercial vehicles market is influenced, in particular, by factors such as: • changes in global market conditions, including changes in levels of business investment and sales of commodities; and • public infrastructure spending. The above factors can significantly influence the demand for agricultural and construction equipment, as well as for commercial vehicles, and consequently, our financial results. We depend on key suppliers for certain raw materials, parts and components. We rely upon key suppliers for certain raw materials, parts and components. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain appropriate supply arrangements with these suppliers or otherwise ensure access to raw materials, parts and components. In some cases this access may be affected by factors outside of our control and the control of our suppliers. Adverse financial conditions and natural disasters, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, some of our suppliers to face severe financial hardship and disrupt our access to critical raw materials, parts and components. Any disruption or shortage in the supply of raw materials, parts and components could negatively impact our costs of production, our ability to fulfill orders and achieve growth in product sales and the profitability of our business. Certain of our subsidiaries use a variety of raw materials in their businesses, including steel, aluminum, lead, resin and copper, and precious metals such as platinum, palladium and rhodium. The prices of these raw materials fluctuate and, at times in recent periods, prices have increased significantly in response to changing market conditions. We seek to manage this exposure, but we may not be successful in hedging these risks. Substantial increases in the prices for raw materials would increase our operating costs and could reduce profitability if the increased costs were not offset by changes in product prices. Competitive activity, or failure by us to respond to actions by our competitors, could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues are generated in highly competitive sectors that include the production and distribution of agricultural and construction equipment, commercial vehicles, and related powertrain systems. We face competition from other international manufacturers and distributors of commercial vehicles in Europe, Asia and Latin America and from global, regional and local agricultural and construction equipment manufacturers, distributors and component suppliers in Europe, Asia, North America and Latin America. Certain of our global competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with certain of our product offerings. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays or our failure to price our products competitively could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Additionally, there has been a trend towards consolidation in the trucks and construction equipment industry that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors in those markets. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive in terms of product quality, innovation, pricing, fuel economy, reliability, safety, customer service and financial services offered. Competition, particularly on pricing, has increased significantly in our areas of activity in recent years. Should we be unable to adapt effectively to external market conditions, this could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, earnings and/or financial position. Costs of ongoing compliance with, or failure to comply with, environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our products and activities are subject to numerous local, national and international environmental laws, which are becoming increasingly stringent in many countries in which we operate. Such laws govern, among other things, products—with requirements on emissions of polluting gases, increased fuel efficiency and safety becoming increasingly strict—and industrial plants—with requirements for 8 Table of Contents reduced emissions, treatment of waste and water and prohibitions on soil contamination also becoming increasingly strict. To comply with such laws, we invest considerable research and development resources and expect to continue to incur substantial costs in the future. Failure to comply with such laws would impact the products we sell and/or the markets in which such products are sold, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A decrease in government incentives may adversely affect our results. Government initiatives that stimulate demand for products sold by us, such as changes in tax treatment or purchase incentives for new equipment, can substantially influence the timing and level of our revenues. The terms, size and duration of such government actions are unpredictable and outside of our control. Any adverse change in government policy relating to those initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and/or financial position. For example, on December 31, 2013, the additional first-year “50% bonus” depreciation and increased expensing of property under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code section 179 expired. This could have an adverse effect on our business prospects in the U.S. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate and on market acceptance of new or existing products. The success of our businesses depends on their ability to maintain or increase their market share in existing markets and to expand into new markets through the development of innovative, high-quality products that provide adequate profitability. In particular, the failure to develop and offer innovative products that compare favorably to those of our principal competitors in terms of price, quality, functionality and features, or delays in bringing strategic new products to market, or the inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, could result in reduced market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. Our existing operations and expansion plans in emerging markets could entail significant risks. Our ability to grow our businesses depends to an increasing degree on our ability to increase market share and operate profitably worldwide and in particular in emerging market countries, such as Brazil, Russia, India, China, Argentina, Turkey, Venezuela and South Africa. In addition, we could increase our use of suppliers located in such countries. Our implementation of these strategies will involve a significant investment of capital and other resources and entail various risks. For example, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining necessary governmental approvals in a timely manner. In addition, we may experience delays and incur significant costs in constructing facilities, establishing supply channels, and commencing manufacturing operations. Further, customers in these markets may not readily accept our products as opposed to products manufactured and commercialized by our competitors. The emerging market countries may also be subject to a greater degree of economic and political volatility that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The emerging market economies may also be subject to a further slowdown in gross domestic product expansion and/or be impacted by domestic currency volatility, potential hyperinflationary conditions and/or increase of public debt. For example, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the Venezuelan government concerning our ability to exchange cash or marketable securities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar into U.S. dollars. Under these regulations, the purchase and sale of foreign currency must be at official rates of exchange and such transactions are subject to volume restrictions. These regulations limit our ability to access and transfer liquidity out of Venezuela to meet funding requirements in other countries and also subject us to increased risk of devaluation or other foreign exchange losses. As of March 31, 2014, we have net monetary assets of $94.6 million at 10.7 Venezuelan bolivar exchange rate to U.S. dollar. We are subject to extensive anti-corruption and antitrust laws and regulations. Our worldwide operations must comply with all applicable laws, which include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as antitrust laws. Anti-corruption laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Antitrust laws prohibit or limit various types of conduct, agreements or other arrangements adversely affecting market competition. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption and antitrust laws. We are committed to ongoing compliance with all applicable laws, and have a compliance 9 Table of Contents program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws. Violations of these laws could result in criminal or civil sanctions and an adverse effect on our reputation, business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. See also “