Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a highly regulated environment and we are subject to supervision, examination and enforcement action by various bank regulatory agencies. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and examination by the WDFI, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities, and obtain financing. This system of regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund and our depositors, and not for the benefit of our stockholders. Under this system of regulation, the regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory, enforcement, rulemaking and examination activities and policies, including rules or policies that: establish minimum capital levels; restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments; govern the classification of assets; determine the adequacy of loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes; and establish the timing and amounts of assessments and fees. Moreover, as part of their examination authority, the banking regulators assign numerical ratings to banks and savings institutions relating to capital, asset quality, management, liquidity, earnings and other factors. These ratings are inherently subjective and the receipt of a less than satisfactory rating in one or more categories may result in enforcement action by the banking regulators against a financial institution. A less than satisfactory rating may also prevent a financial institution, such as WaterStone Bank or its holding company, from obtaining necessary regulatory approvals to access the capital markets, pay dividends, acquire other financial institutions or establish new branches. Federal regulations governing the mutual-to-stock conversion require that we prepare a business plan that addresses, among other items, our projected operations and activities for three years following the conversion. The business plan is a confidential document that is submitted to the banking regulatory agencies and may not reflect currently unanticipated potential business opportunities or activities, such as increased dividends or acquisitions of other financial institutions. Federal regulations require that we operate within the parameters of the business plan, and that the Federal Reserve Board approve any material deviation from the business plan. This could affect our ability to conduct activities that deviate from the regulatory business plan that would otherwise benefit our stockholders. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, Community Reinvestment Act laws and regulations, and fair lending laws and regulations. Government agencies have the authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on institutions that fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could significantly affect our business activities, including our ability to acquire other financial institutions or expand our branch network. - 49 - Changing interest rates may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our earnings and cash flows are dependent on our net interest income and income from our mortgage banking operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly, we may have to increase the rates we pay on our deposits, particularly our higher cost time deposits and borrowed funds, more quickly than any changes in interest rates earned on our loans and investments, resulting in a negative effect on interest spreads and net interest income. Furthermore, our mortgage banking income varies directly with movements in interest rates, and increases in interest rates could negatively affect our ability to originate loans in the same volumes as we have in recent years. Increases in interest rates may also make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected if competitive pressures keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, while the yields on our assets decrease more rapidly through loan prepayments and interest rate adjustments. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk." Higher interest rates may reduce our mortgage banking revenues, which would negatively impact our net income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income and are significantly affected by market interest rates. Any increase in market interest rates may reduce our mortgage banking income. For example, following the increase in interest rates in the spring of 2013, our mortgage banking revenues decreased to $36.5 million for the final two quarters of 2013 compared to $48.4 first two quarters of the year. We generate revenues primarily from gains on the sale of mortgage loans to investors. We also earn interest on loans held for sale while they are awaiting delivery to our investors. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our mortgage loan originations may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available for sale. This would result in a decrease in interest income, a decrease in revenues from loan sales and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment, data processing and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in mortgage loan origination activity. A discontinuation of the Federal Reserve Board's bond purchasing program may adversely affect our mortgage banking revenues. The Federal Reserve Board has undertaken an unprecedented bond purchase program, known as "quantitative easing." This program is designed to keep market interest rates low and encourage growth. A continued slowdown of the Federal Reserve Board's bond repurchase program will likely cause an increase in market interest rates, which may reduce our loan originations by our mortgage banking subsidiary. - 50 - We continue to experience high levels of delinquencies, non-accrual loans and charge-offs, which negatively affects our financial condition and results of operations. We continue to experience high levels of non-accrual loans and loan delinquencies. Our non-accrual loans totaled $51.0 million, or 4.66% of total loans, at December 31, 2013, $74.7 million, or 6.59% of total loans, at December 31, 2012 and $78.2 million, or 6.43% of total loans, at December 31, 2011. Our loans past due totaled $44.0 million, or 4.0% of total loans receivable, at December 31, 2013, $74.4 million, or 6.6% of total loans receivable, at December 31, 2012 and $93.4 million, or 7.7% of total loans, at December 31, 2011. The continued elevated level of non-performing and delinquent loans has resulted in high levels of loan charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2013 and the year ended December 31, 2012, net charge-offs totaled $11.3 million and $9.7 million, respectively. Our high level of problem assets has also increased our costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and managing and disposing of foreclosed property. We expect these costs to remain elevated until our delinquencies improve and we dispose of our foreclosed property. To the extent that our loan portfolio deteriorates, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Continued deterioration may also lead to actions by regulators that may have a direct material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent federal government shutdown resulted in reduced loan originations and related gains on sale during the fourth quarter of 2013, and any future federal government shutdown could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. During the recent federal government shutdown, we were not able to close certain loans and recognize non-interest income on the sale of those loans due to our inability to verify information related to borrowers, such as payments of federal income taxes. Also, some of the loans we originate are sold directly to government agencies, and some of these sales were unable to be consummated during the shutdown. Although we ultimately closed a majority of these loans, we incurred higher borrowing costs related to the longer period we maintain an outstanding commitment to fund a loan. In addition, we believe that some of these borrowers determined not to proceed with their home purchase and not close on their loans, which resulted in a permanent loss of the related non-interest income. Any future federal government shutdown could have the same negative effect. We rely heavily on certificates of deposit, which has increased our cost of funds and could continue to do so in the future. Our reliance on certificates of deposit to fund our operations has resulted in a higher cost of funds than would otherwise be the case if we had a higher percentage of demand deposits, savings deposits and money market accounts. In addition, if our certificates of deposit do not remain with us, we may be required to access other sources of funds, including loan sales, other types of deposits, including replacement certificates of deposit, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago and other borrowings. Depending on market conditions, we may be required to pay higher rates on such deposits or other borrowings than we currently pay on our certificates of deposit. - 51 - We intend to increase our commercial business lending, and we intend to continue our commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate lending, which may expose us to increased lending risks and have a negative effect on our results of operations. In an effort to increase our commercial loan portfolio, we established a commercial loan department in 2007 and we currently have four commercial business loan officers. We also continue to focus on originating commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans. These types of loans generally have a higher risk of loss compared to our one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Commercial business loans may expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial business and commercial real estate loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate loans as repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. Also, the collateral underlying commercial business loans may fluctuate in value. Some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. Multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans involve increased risk because repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover property maintenance and debt service. In addition, if loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans and increased investor yield requirements for these loans. These conditions may fluctuate or worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is greater risk in retaining mortgage loans pending their sale to investors. We believe our ability to retain fixed-rate residential mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it would negatively affect our earnings. One of our primary business operations is our mortgage banking, which involves originating residential mortgage loans for sale in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold in cases of borrower default or breaches of these representations and warranties. We have experienced more frequent disputes and repurchase demands from these buyers. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could significantly increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings. - 52 - Proposed and final regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this "qualified mortgage" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule, a "qualified mortgage" loan must not contain certain specified features, including: • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less "bona fide discount points" for prime loans); • interest-only payments; • negative-amortization; and • terms longer than 30 years Also, to qualify as a "qualified mortgage," a borrower's total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a "qualified residential mortgage." The regulatory agencies have issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of "qualified residential mortgage" can be no broader than the definition of "qualified mortgage" issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for purposes of its regulations (as described above). Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and unemployment levels remain high despite the Federal Reserve Board's unprecedented efforts to maintain low market interest rates and encourage economic growth. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. The discontinuation of the Federal Reserve Board's bond purchasing program could result in higher interest rates and reduced economic activity. Moreover, a return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in greater loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming, criticized and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. - 53 - If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our results of operations would be negatively affected. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we analyze our loss and delinquency experience by loan categories and we consider the effect of existing economic conditions. In addition, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If the results of our analyses are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to our allowance and would decrease our net income. Our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial real estate loans, as well as any future credit deterioration, could require us to increase our allowance further in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because most of our borrowers are located in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin metropolitan area, a prolonged downturn in the local economy, or a decline in local real estate values, could cause an increase in nonperforming loans or a decrease in loan demand, which would reduce our profits. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate located in our primary market area. Weakness in our local economy and our local real estate markets could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Weakness in economic conditions also could result in reduced loan demand and a decline in loan originations. In particular, a significant decline in real estate values would likely lead to a decrease in new loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults by our borrowers. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide, all of which benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect our earnings. Subject to our ability to receive regulatory approval, we currently intend to open six new full-service branch offices by the end of 2016, with two branch offices opening in each of 2014, 2015 and 2016. The profitability of these branches will depend on whether the income that we generate from the additional branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating new branches. We expect that it may take time before new branches become profitable. During this period, operating new branches may negatively affect our operating results. For information on restrictions on our ability to establish new branch offices, see "Supervision and Regulation—General." - 54 - Financial reform legislation is expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of depository institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the Federal Reserve Board to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies, such as New Waterstone, in addition to bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also instructed the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for holding companies that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, and requires the components of Tier 1 capital to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five-year transition period before the holding company capital requirement will apply. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, such as WaterStone Bank, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as WaterStone Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. It is difficult to predict at this time the effect that the legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks with regard to lending and credit practices. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have delayed effective dates, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of all of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase our operating and compliance costs. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies are essential to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could also be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which may result in our restating our prior period financial statements. - 55 - The need to account for certain assets at estimated fair value may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, such as loans held for sale, at estimated fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from security breaches. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. - 56 - Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We would seek acquisition partners that offer us either significant market presence or the potential to expand our market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse effect on our financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; • payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term; • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • exposure to potential asset quality problems of the target company; • potential volatility in reported income associated with goodwill impairment losses; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; • potential disruption to our business; • potential diversion of our management's time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. - 57 - Our failure to effectively deploy the net proceeds of our recently completed stock offering may have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Of the total $248 million in net proceeds from the stock offering, we invested approximately $124 million in WaterStone Bank. We may use the remaining net proceeds to invest in short-term investments, repurchase shares of common stock, pay dividends or for other general corporate purposes. We also expect to use a portion of the net proceeds we retain to fund a loan to our employee stock ownership plan to purchase shares of common stock in the offering. WaterStone Bank may use the net proceeds it receives to fund new loans, expand its retail banking franchise by establishing or acquiring new branches or by acquiring other financial institutions or other financial services companies, or for other general corporate purposes. However, with the exception of the loan to the employee stock ownership plan, we have not allocated specific amounts of the net proceeds for any of these purposes, and we will have significant flexibility in determining the amount of the net proceeds we apply to different uses and when we apply or reinvest such proceeds. Also, certain of these uses, such as opening new branches or acquiring other financial institutions, may require the approval of the WDFI, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve Board. We have not established a timetable for reinvesting the net proceeds, and we cannot predict how long we will require to reinvest the net proceeds. Our failure to utilize these funds effectively would reduce our profitability and may adversely affect the value of our common stock. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law, shares of restricted stock and stock options that we have granted or may grant to employees and directors and stock ownership by our management and directors, and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of New Waterstone without the consent of our board of directors. A shareholder may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None - 58 - 