Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from shares of capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, or pay any distribution at all, and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level, or at all, to holders of our common and subordinated units. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit, or $1.15 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require available cash of approximately $11.9 million per quarter, or $47.5 million per year, based on the number of common, subordinated and general partner units currently outstanding. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level, at the minimum quarterly distribution level, or at all. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the level of firm transportation and storage capacity sold and the volume of natural gas we transport, store and process; • the level of production of oil and natural gas and the resultant market prices of natural gas and NGLs; • regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of natural gas; the level of demand and perceptions of demand in our end-user markets; and actual and anticipated future prices of natural gas and other commodities (and the volatility thereof), which may impact our ability to renew and replace firm transportation, storage and processing agreements; • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the rates we can charge on our assets, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; • changes in the fees we charge for our services; • the effect of seasonal variations in temperature on the amount of natural gas that we transport, store, process and treat; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices and resulting effect on processing margins; • the realized pricing impacts on revenues and expenses that are directly related to commodity prices; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets; 16 Table of Contents • the creditworthiness of our customers; • the level of our operating and maintenance costs; • damages to pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • outages at our processing facilities; • leaks or accidental releases of hazardous materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on the other factors, including: • the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; • the level of our general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, including TD, for services provided to us; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and • other business risks affecting our cash levels. If we are not able to renew or replace expiring customer contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis, our financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders will be adversely affected. With respect to our transportation and storage segment, we have experienced decreases in revenues as compared to historical periods resulting from decreased renewals of long-haul firm capacity contracts with off-system customers over the last few years. If this trend continues, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be materially impacted. We transport, store and process a substantial majority of the natural gas on our systems under long-term contracts with terms of various durations. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 93% of our transportation and storage revenues were generated under firm transportation and storage contracts. Our firm transportation and storage contracts have a weighted average maturity of approximately four years and two years, respectively as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the weighted average duration of our processing contracts was approximately four years. As these contracts expire, we may be unable to obtain new contracts on terms similar to those of our existing contracts, or at all. If we are unable to promptly resell capacity from expiring contracts on equivalent terms, our revenues may decrease and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be materially impaired. For example, over the past several years, a number of our transportation and storage customers have opted not to renew their contracts for service on the TIGT System. We believe those non-renewals have been caused both by increased competition from large diameter long-haul pipeline systems that are more efficient and cost effective at transporting natural gas over long distances, as well as reduced drilling activity for dry gas in the Rocky Mountain region. These former customers are generally large producers that primarily used the TIGT System to access interstate pipelines for ultimate delivery to consuming markets outside our areas of operations, 17 Table of Contents as opposed to our current customer base, which is primarily comprised of on-system regional customers, such as LDCs. The non-renewal of these transportation contracts has resulted in decreases in firm contracted capacity on the TIGT System and related decreases in total revenue. For example, our average firm contracted capacity decreased from 842 MMcf/d for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 679 MMcf/d for the year ended December 31, 2013 and transportation services revenue decreased from $142.4 million to $98.6 million over the same period, primarily due to the loss of revenue from the non-renewal of transportation contracts. We also may be unable to maintain the long-term nature and economic structure of our current contract portfolio over time. Depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of a contract renewal, transportation, storage and processing customers with fee-based contracts may desire to enter into contracts under different fee arrangements, and our potential customers may be generally unwilling to enter into long-term contracts. To the extent we are unable to renew or replace our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage the long-term nature and economic structure of our contract mix over time, our revenues and cash flows could decline and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if an existing customer terminates or breaches its long-term firm transportation, storage or processing contract, we may be subject to a loss of revenue if we are unable to promptly resell the capacity to another customer on substantially equivalent terms. Our ability to renew or replace our expiring contracts on terms similar to, or more attractive than, those of our existing contracts is uncertain and depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • the level of existing and new competition to provide transportation, storage and processing services to our markets; • the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas gathering economics for our current and potential customers; • the balance of supply and demand for natural gas, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in the markets we serve; • the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and • the effects of federal, state or local laws or regulations on the contracting practices of our customers. Increased competition from other companies that provide natural gas transportation, storage and processing services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to renew or replace our existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and current cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do and control substantially more transportation, storage and processing capacity than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have assets in closer proximity to natural gas supplies and have available idle capacity in existing assets that would not require new capital investments for use. For example, several pipelines access many of the same basins as the TIGT System and transport gas to customers in the Rocky Mountain and Midwest regions of the United States. Our competitors may expand or construct new transportation, storage or processing systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers, or our customers may develop their own transportation, storage and processing facilities in lieu of using ours. The potential for the construction of new processing facilities in our areas of operation is particularly acute due to the nature of the processing industry and the attractive drilling profile of geographic areas served by our Midstream Facilities. Furthermore, TD and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. If our competitors were to substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to compete effectively and our cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be materially impaired. 18 Table of Contents Further, natural gas as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for our services. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to renew our existing long-term, firm transportation, storage and processing contracts when they expire or to attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets we serve, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Tallgrass Development or third parties, our future growth will be limited, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants, including Tallgrass Development. Other than Tallgrass Development’s obligation to offer us certain assets (if Tallgrass Development decides to sell such assets) pursuant to the right of first offer under the Omnibus Agreement, we have no contractual arrangement with Tallgrass Development that would require it to provide us with an opportunity to acquire midstream assets that it may sell. Accordingly, while we believe Tallgrass Development will be incentivized pursuant to its economic relationship with us to offer us opportunities to purchase midstream assets, there can be no assurance that any such offer will be made, and there can be no assurance we will reach agreement on the terms with respect to any acquisition opportunities offered to us by Tallgrass Development. Furthermore, many factors could impair our access to future midstream assets, including a change in control of Tallgrass Development or a transfer of the IDRs by our general partner to a third party. A material decrease in divestitures of midstream energy assets from Tallgrass Development or otherwise would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited if we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Tallgrass Development or third parties because, among other reasons, (i) Tallgrass Development elects not to sell or contribute additional assets to us or to offer acquisition opportunities to us, (ii) we are unable to identify attractive third-party acquisition opportunities, (iii) we are unable to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with Tallgrass Development or third parties, (iv) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (v) we are outbid by competitors or (vi) we are unable to obtain necessary governmental or third-party consents. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies and potential growth; • an inability to maintain or secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities; • an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; 19 Table of Contents • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or business lines; and • a decrease in liquidity and increased leverage as a result of using significant amounts of available cash or debt to finance an acquisition. If any acquisition eventually proves not to be accretive to our distributable cash flow per unit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to expand our asset base through acquisitions or capital projects, we may need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly cash distributions. We could be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests in order to fund our expansion capital expenditures. Using cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. We do not currently have any commitment with our general partner or other affiliates, including Tallgrass Development, to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us. We are exposed to direct commodity price risk with respect to some of our processing revenues, and our exposure to direct commodity price risk may increase in the future. Our processing segment operates under two types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percent of proceeds and keep whole arrangements. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 34% of the reserved capacity in our processing segment was contracted under percent of proceeds or keep whole arrangements. Under percent of proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain from the sale an agreed percentage of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs resulting from our processing activities at market prices. These arrangements provide upside in high commodity price environments, but result in lower margins in low commodity price environments. Under keep whole arrangements, we are required to replace the Btu content of NGLs extracted from the inlet wet gas processed with purchased dry natural gas, some of which we must purchase at market prices. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, it is more profitable for us to process natural gas under keep whole arrangements. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce our 20 Table of Contents processing margins or reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants. In addition, NGL prices have historically been correlated to the market price of oil and as a result any significant changes in oil prices could also indirectly impact our operations. NGL and natural gas prices are volatile and are impacted by changes in the supply and demand for NGLs and natural gas, as well as market uncertainty. We do not currently hedge the commodity exposure in our processing contracts and, as a result, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and NGLs. As a result of our commodity price exposure, significant prolonged changes in natural gas and NGL prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our natural gas transportation, storage and processing facilities connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties, such as Phillips 66 Company and others. For example, a substantial majority of the NGLs we process are transported on the Powder River pipeline owned by Phillips 66 Company, and therefore, any downtime on this pipeline as a result of maintenance or force majeure would adversely affect us. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, processing plants and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines, plants and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from weather events or other operational hazards. In addition, if the costs to us to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in costs occurred, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process natural gas, or if the volumes we transport or process do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and our ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our transportation and storage operations are regulated by the FERC, under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or the NGA, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or the NGPA, and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EP Act 2005. The TIGT System operates under a tariff approved by the FERC that establishes rates, cost recovery mechanisms and terms and conditions of service to our customers. Generally, the FERC’s authority extends to: • rates, operating terms and conditions of service; • the form of tariffs governing service; • the types of services we may offer to our customers; • the certification and construction of new, or the expansion of existing, facilities; • the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; • creditworthiness and credit support requirements; • the maintenance of accounts and records; • relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business; • depreciation and amortization policies; and • the initiation and discontinuation of services. 21 Table of Contents Interstate pipelines may not charge rates or impose terms and conditions of service that, upon review by the FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. The maximum recourse rate that we may charge for our transportation and storage services is established through the FERC’s ratemaking process. The maximum applicable recourse rate and terms and conditions for service are set forth in our FERC-approved tariff. Pursuant to the NGA, existing interstate transportation and storage rates and terms and conditions of service may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC. Additionally, rate increases and changes to terms and conditions of service proposed by a regulated interstate pipeline may be protested and such increases or changes can be delayed and may ultimately be rejected by the FERC. We currently hold authority from the FERC to charge and collect (i) “recourse rates” (i.e., the maximum cost-based rates an interstate pipeline may charge for its services under its tariff); (ii) “discount rates” which are offered by the pipeline to shippers within the cost-based maximum and minimum rate levels in effect from time to time; and (iii) “negotiated rates” which are fixed between the pipeline and the shipper for the contract term and do not vary with changes in the level of cost-based “recourse rates,” provided that the affected customers are willing to agree to such rates and that the FERC has approved the negotiated rate agreement. When capacity is available and offered for sale at other than negotiated rates, the rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for) are pursuant to those rates provided in our tariff, which is subject to regulatory approval and oversight. In those circumstances, regulators and customers on the TIGT System would have the right to protest or otherwise challenge the rates that we charge under a process prescribed by applicable regulations. The FERC may also initiate reviews of our rates. We may also engage in more general disputes with customers on our pipeline system regarding terms and conditions of our agreements, as well as proper interpretation and application of our tariff, among other things. Any successful challenge by a regulator or shipper in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our gas compressor fuel costs and the cost of lost and unaccounted for gas, together referred to as Fuel Retention Factors, are recovered by retaining a fixed percentage of natural gas throughput on our transportation and storage facilities. These Fuel Retention Factors were the subject of a Section 5 proceeding initiated by the FERC that we resolved with customers by a settlement approved by the FERC in September 2011. The FERC’s jurisdiction extends to the certification and construction of interstate transportation and storage facilities, including, but not limited to, acquisitions, facility maintenance, expansions, and abandonment of facilities and services. Prior to commencing construction of significant new or existing interstate transportation and storage facilities, an interstate pipeline must obtain a certificate authorizing the construction, or file to amend its existing certificate, from the FERC. Typically, a significant expansion project requires review by a number of governmental agencies, including state and local agencies, whose cooperation is important in completing the regulatory process on schedule. Any refusal by an agency to issue authorizations or permits for one or more of these projects may mean that we will not be able to pursue these projects or that they will be constructed in a manner or with capital requirements that we did not anticipate. Such refusal or modification could materially and negatively impact the additional revenues expected from these projects. FERC conducts audits to verify that the websites of interstate pipelines accurately provide information on the operations and availability of services on the pipeline. FERC regulations also require uniform terms and conditions for service, as set forth in agreements for transportation and storage services executed between interstate pipelines and their customers. These service agreements are required to conform, in all material respects, with the standard form of service agreements set forth in the pipeline’s FERC-approved tariff. Non-conforming agreements must be filed with, and accepted by, the FERC. In the event that the FERC finds that an agreement, in whole or part, is materially non-conforming, it could reject the agreement or require us to seek modification, or alternatively require us to modify our tariff so that the non-conforming provisions are generally available to all customers. 22 Table of Contents The FERC has promulgated rules and policies covering many aspects of our business, including regulations that require us to provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all natural gas suppliers, provide internet access to current information about our available pipeline capacity and other relevant information, and permit pipeline shippers to release contracted transportation and storage capacity to other shippers, thereby creating secondary markets for such services. FERC regulations also restrict interstate natural gas pipelines from sharing transportation or customer information with marketing affiliates and require that interstate natural gas pipelines function independently of their marketing affiliates. Failure to comply with applicable provisions of the NGA, the NGPA, the EP Act of 2005 and certain other laws, as well as with the regulations, rules, orders, restrictions and conditions associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per day, per violation. In addition, new laws or regulations or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our pipeline system or midstream facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For example, the FERC may not continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as interstate pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity and transportation and storage facilities. We may face challenges to our rates or terms of service in the future. Any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings and cash flows. If a tariff governing services we provide is successfully challenged, we could be required to reduce rates charged to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Any of our shippers, the FERC, or other interested stakeholders, such as state regulatory agencies, may challenge the maximum recourse rates or the terms and conditions of service included in our tariff. We do not have an agreement in place that would prohibit these parties from challenging our tariff. If any challenge were successful, among other things, the rates that we charge on our systems could be reduced. For example, we were subject to a Section 5 proceeding initiated by our shippers relating to our Fuel Retention Factors, which generally are recovered by retaining a fixed percentage of natural gas throughput on our transportation and storage facilities. We resolved these issues with customers by a settlement approved by the FERC in September 2011, which resulted in a 27% reduction in the Fuel Retention Factors billed to shippers effective June 1, 2011, causing a decrease in transportation and storage revenue. The Section 5 Settlement also provided for a second stepped reduction, resulting in a total 30% reduction in the Fuel Retention Factors billed to shippers and effective January 1, 2012, for certain segments of the former Pony Express pipeline system. Successful challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. We are exposed to the creditworthiness and performance of our customers, suppliers and contract counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of these parties could adversely affect our financial and operating results. Although we attempt to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, suppliers and contract counterparties, there can be no assurance that our assessments will be accurate or that there will not be a rapid or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, our long-term firm transportation and storage contracts obligate our customers to pay demand charges regardless of whether they transport or store natural gas on our facilities, except when we are unable to schedule the customer’s nomination for service due to capacity constraints caused by maintenance or a force majeure event lasting more than 10 days. As a result, during the term of our long-term firm transportation and storage contracts and absent an event of force majeure, our revenues will generally depend on our customers’ financial condition and their ability to pay 23 Table of Contents rather than upon the amount of natural gas transported. Further, our contract counterparties may not perform or adhere to our existing or future contractual arrangements. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our contract counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The procedures and policies we use to manage our exposure to credit risk, such as credit analysis, credit monitoring and, in some cases, requiring credit support, cannot fully eliminate counterparty credit risks. To the extent our procedures and policies prove to be inadequate, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted. Some of our counterparties may be highly leveraged or have limited financial resources and will be subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. In addition, volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us and may also increase the magnitude of these obligations. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our counterparties could require us to pursue substitute counterparties for the affected operations, reduce operations or provide alternative services. There can be no assurance that any such efforts would be successful or would provide similar financial and operational results. Any significant decrease in available supplies of natural gas in our areas of operation, or redirection of existing natural gas supplies to other markets, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our transportation, storage and processing facilities will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas transported, stored and processed on our systems and cash flows associated therewith, our customers must continually obtain adequate supplies of natural gas. However, the development of additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to our transportation, storage and processing facilities. In addition, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, including environmental regulations, or the lack of available capital for these projects could have a material adverse effect on the development and production of additional reserves, as well as storage, pipeline transportation, and import and export of natural gas supplies. Furthermore, competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could reduce the amount of natural gas supply available for our customers. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas transported on our systems and cash flows associated with our operations, our customers must compete with others to obtain adequate supplies of natural gas. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, if natural gas supplies are diverted to serve other markets, or if environmental regulators restrict new natural gas drilling, the overall demand for transportation, storage and processing services on our systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to renew or replace our current customer contracts when they expire and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. 24 Table of Contents Constructing new assets subjects us to risks of project delays, cost overruns and lower-than-anticipated volumes of natural gas once a project is completed. Our operating cash flows from our capital projects may not be immediate or meet our expectations. One of the ways we may grow our business is by constructing additions or modifications to our existing facilities. We also may construct new facilities, either near our existing operations or in new areas. For example, in 2013 we completed an expansion of our Casper and Douglas plants to increase processing capacity and upgrade compression. Construction projects require significant amounts of capital and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These projects also involve numerous economic uncertainties, including the impact of inflation on project costs and the availability of required resources. We may be unable to complete construction projects on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, we may not receive any material increase in operating cash flow from a project for some time. For instance, if we expand a pipeline or processing facility, the construction expenditures may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in cash flow until the project is completed and fully operational. In addition, our cash flow from a project may be delayed or may not meet our expectations. Our project specifications and expectations regarding project cost, timing, asset performance, investment returns and other matters usually rely in part on the expertise of third parties such as engineers, technical experts and construction contractors. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of numerous operational, technological, economic and other uncertainties. We rely in part on estimates from producers regarding the timing and volume of anticipated natural gas production. Production estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties, all of which are beyond our control. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate, and new facilities may not attract sufficient volumes to achieve our expected cash flow and investment return. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas. The success of our business is in many ways impacted by the supply and demand for natural gas. For example, our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for natural gas in the markets that we serve, including reductions in our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms and to construct new infrastructure. One of the major factors that will impact natural gas demand will be the potential growth of the demand for natural gas in the power generation market, particularly driven by the speed and level of existing coal-fired power generation that is replaced with natural gas-fired power generation. One of the major factors impacting natural gas supplies has been the significant growth in unconventional sources such as shale plays. The supply and demand for natural gas, and therefore the future rate of growth of our business, will depend on these and many other factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: • adverse changes in general global economic conditions; • adverse changes in domestic regulations; • technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing natural gas shales; • the price and availability of other forms of energy; • prices for natural gas and NGLs; • increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process and transport natural gas; • weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; • the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, for example greenhouse gas legislation, taxation and hydraulic fracturing; and 25 Table of Contents • perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services and natural gas prices, particularly customers’ perceptions on the volatility of natural gas prices over the long term. We are subject to numerous hazards and operational risks. Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with the transportation, storage and processing of natural gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: • damage to pipelines, facilities, equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, fires or other adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment; • uncontrolled releases of natural gas and other hydrocarbons; • leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • outages at our processing facilities; • ruptures, fires and explosions; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and other environmental risks, and suspension of operations. For example, on May 4, 2013, we experienced a release of natural gas from a segment of pipeline in Kimball County, Nebraska resulting in damage to a small section of the TIGT pipeline. And, on June 13, 2013, a failure occurred on a small portion of an approximately 33 mile segment of the TIGT pipeline near Torrington, Wyoming, resulting in a release of natural gas. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. The location of certain segments of our pipeline system in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Despite the precautions we take, events such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property, could result in loss of service available to customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to unitholders. In addition, maintenance, repair and remediation activities could result in service interruptions on segments of our systems or alter the operational profile of our systems. Potential impacts arising from these service interruptions or operational profile changes on segments of our systems could include, among others, limitations on our ability to satisfy customer requirements, obligations to provide reservation charge credits to customers in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of existing customers by others for potential new projects that would compete directly with existing services. We could be required by regulatory authorities to test or undertake modifications to our systems, operations or both that could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we received a Corrective Action Order from PHMSA on June 19, 2013 directing us to take certain investigative, testing and corrective measures with regard to the segment of the TIGT pipeline that failed on June 13, 2013. Such actions, including those required by PHMSA, could materially and adversely impact our ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and could also limit or prevent our ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Some or all of our costs arising from these operational risks may not be recoverable under insurance, contractual indemnification or increases in rates charged to our customers. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business, including environmental accidents that might occur. For example, we do not maintain business interruption insurance in the type and amount to cover all 26 Table of Contents possible risks of loss. In addition, we do not carry insurance for certain environmental exposures, including but not limited to potential environmental fines and penalties, business interruption, named windstorm or hurricane exposures and, in limited circumstances, certain political risk exposures. Further, in the event there is a total or partial loss of our pipeline system and/or processing facilities, any insurance proceeds that we may receive in respect thereof may not be sufficient in any particular situation to effect a restoration of our pipeline system and/or processing facilities to the condition that existed prior to such loss. In addition, we do not have insurance coverage on the legal proceedings described in “Note 15 – Legal and Environmental Matters to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II—Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.” The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates, and we may elect to self-insure a portion of our asset portfolio. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain types of insurance policies may substantially increase, and in some instances, certain types of insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Accordingly, any insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Our pipeline integrity program may impose significant costs and liabilities on us, while increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipeline system may require us to make additional capital and operating expenditures to comply with such requirements. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. There are, for example, federal requirements set by PHMSA for pipeline companies in the areas of pipeline design, construction, and testing, the qualification of personnel and the development of operations and emergency response plans. The rules require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rules refer to as High Consequence Areas, or HCAs. Our interstate pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety regulations administered by PHMSA. These regulations, among other things, include requirements to monitor and maintain the integrity of our pipeline system and determine the pressures at which our pipeline system can operate. The Pipeline Safety Act of 2011 enacted January 3, 2012, amends the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, or the Pipeline Safety Act of 2002, in a number of significant ways, including: • reauthorizing funding for federal pipeline safety programs, increasing penalties for safety violations and establishing additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines; • requiring PHMSA to adopt appropriate regulations within two years and requiring the use of automatic or remote-controlled shutoff valves on new or rebuilt pipeline facilities; • requiring operators of pipelines to verify maximum allowable operating pressure and report exceedances within five days; and • requiring studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for new and existing pipelines, including changes to integrity management requirements for HCAs, and expansion of those requirements to areas outside of HCAs. PHMSA published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking in August 2011 to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to revise integrity management requirements. On August 13, 2012, PHMSA published rules to update pipeline safety regulations to reflect provisions included in the Pipeline Safety Act of 2011, including increasing maximum civil penalties from $0.1 million to $0.2 million per violation per day of violation and from $1.0 million to $2.0 million as a maximum amount for a related series of violations as well as changing PHMSA’s enforcement process. 27 Table of Contents The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. The majority of the costs to comply with the rules are associated with pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. Changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in HCAs or expansion of integrity management requirements to areas outside of HCAs can have a significant impact on the costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. We plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the DOT rules. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. Further, additional laws, regulations and policies that may be enacted or adopted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. For example, PHMSA issued an Advisory Bulletin in May 2012 which advised pipeline operators that they must have records to document the maximum allowable operating pressure for each section of their pipeline and that the records must be traceable, verifiable and complete. Locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing (including hydrotesting) or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of verifiable pressures, could significantly increase our costs. In 2013, TIGT reported a total of 26.4 miles of pipeline for which it had incomplete records for MAOP. We are currently undertaking an extensive internal record review in view of the anticipated PHMSA annual reporting requirements. Additionally, failure to locate such records or verify maximum pressures could require us to operate at reduced pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipeline system. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures required to comply with pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may be subject to enforcement actions and penalties for failure to comply with pipeline regulations. On August 29, 2012, PHMSA notified TIGT that a report from an audit conducted in 2010 indicated a probable violation for failing to perform a periodic review of personnel responses to certain abnormal operations. Specifically, PHMSA cited to the operation of a relief valve on March 3, 2010. TIGT responded to the notice of probable violation and requested a hearing in a response filed with PHMSA on October 1, 2012. A hearing was held on January 15, 2013 and a Final Order was received on October 30, 2013 that required us to make minor modifications to our operating procedures regarding Abnormal Operating Conditions. Climate change regulation at the federal, state or regional levels could result in increased operating and capital costs for us. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases, or GHGs. Various laws and regulations exist, or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such GHGs, including United States Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, programs to control GHG emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered, but not adopted, legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. The EPA published in December 2009 its findings that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment. Pursuant to this endangerment finding and other rulemakings and interpretations, the EPA concluded that stationary sources would become subject to federal permitting requirements under the CAA, starting in 2011. In 2010, the EPA issued a final rule, known as the “Tailoring Rule,” that defines regulatory emission thresholds at which certain new and modified stationary sources are subject to permitting and other requirements for GHG emissions under the CAA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs. The EPA has indicated in rulemakings that it may reduce the current regulatory thresholds for GHGs, making additional sources subject to PSD permitting requirements. 28 Table of Contents However, in July 2012, the EPA declined to lower the applicability thresholds to allow the GHG regulations to apply to additional, smaller sources. The EPA’s determination was to allow states additional time to implement existing GHG regulations, as opposed to an EPA determination that regulation was unnecessary. As such, the EPA may still lower the threshold for GHG permitting in the future, which may affect our facilities. Some of our facilities emit GHGs in excess of the currently-applicable Tailoring Rule thresholds and have been required to obtain a Title V Permit that reflects this potential to emit GHGs. Although these existing facilities are not currently required to obtain a PSD permit containing enforceable limits on GHG emissions, any future modifications with a potential to emit GHGs above the applicable regulatory thresholds at the time of the application would require us to obtain a PSD permit containing enforceable limits on GHG emissions. Additional direct regulation of GHG emissions in our industry may be implemented under other CAA programs, including the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, program. The EPA has already proposed to regulate GHG emissions from certain electric generating units under the NSPS program. While these proposed regulations for electric generating units would not apply to our operations, the EPA may propose to regulate additional sources under the NSPS program. In addition, in 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring that specified large GHG emissions sources annually report the GHG emissions for the preceding year in the United States. In 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting rule for petroleum and natural gas facilities, including natural gas transportation compression facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule requires reporting of GHG emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA on an annual basis. Some of our facilities are required to report under this rule, and operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with GHG emissions reporting requirements. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas “cap and trade” programs. Many of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender emission allowances. Because our operations, including our compressor stations and processing facilities, emit various types of GHGs, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, new legislation or regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities, and could delay future permitting. Depending on the particular new law, regulation or program adopted, we could be required to incur capital expenditures for installation of new emission controls on our compressor stations and processing facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for our GHG emissions, pay taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program. We are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our pipeline system, such recovery of costs is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. Similarly, while we may be able to recover some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our processing facilities, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on the terms of our contracts with our customers. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. To the extent financial markets view climate change and greenhouse gas emissions as a financial risk, this could materially and adversely impact our cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change, or incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could also affect the markets for our services by making natural gas products less desirable than competing sources of energy. 29 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures that could exceed our current expectations. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in natural gas transportation, storage and processing operations, and as a result, we may be required to make substantial expenditures that could exceed current expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, environmental protection, including the discharge of materials into the environment, and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws include, but are not limited to, the following: • CAA and analogous state laws, which impose obligations related to air emissions; • Clean Water Act, or CWA, and analogous state laws, which regulate discharge of pollutants contained in wastewater and storm water from our facilities to state and federal waters, including wetlands; • CERCLA, and analogous state laws, which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal; • RCRA, and analogous state laws, which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of hazardous and nonhazardous solid waste from our facilities; • Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, which establishes workplace standards for the protection of the health and safety of employees, including the implementation of hazard communications programs designed to inform employees about hazardous substances in the workplace, potential harmful effects of these substances, and appropriate control measures; • The National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, which requires federal agencies to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment and which may require the preparation of Environmental Assessments and more detailed Environmental Impact Statements that may be made available for public review and comment; • The Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds and, pursuant to which the taking, killing or possessing of migratory birds is unlawful without a permit, thereby potentially requiring the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas; • Endangered Species Act, or ESA, and analogous state laws, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species; • Gold and Bald Eagle Protection Act, or GBEPA, prohibits anyone, without a permit issued by the Secretary of the Interior, from “taking” bald eagles, including their parts, nests, or eggs. The Act defines “take” as “pursue, shoot, shoot at, poison, wound, kill, capture, trap, collect, molest or disturb.” • OPA, and analogous laws, which imposes liability for discharges of oil into waters of the United States and requires facilities which could be reasonably expected to discharge oil into waters of the United States to maintain and implement appropriate spill contingency plans; and • National Historic Preservation Act, or NHPA, and analogous state laws, which is intended to preserve and protect historical and archeological sites. Various governmental authorities, including but not limited to the EPA, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and analogous Federal, State and local agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits and related plans issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits, plans 30 Table of Contents and agreements may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, and delays in granting permits. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to our handling of the products we transport and store, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and waste disposal practices, and the prior use of flow meters and manometers containing mercury. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including but not limited to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. We are currently conducting remediation at several sites to address contamination. For 2014, we have budgeted approximately $576,000 for these ongoing environmental remediation projects. Private parties, including but not limited to the owners of properties through which our pipeline system passes and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws, regulations and permits issued thereunder, or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours that could result in remedial action. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance does not cover all environmental risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. In March 2010, the EPA announced its National Enforcement Initiatives for 2011 to 2013, which included the addition of “Energy Extraction Activities” to its enforcement priorities list. To address its concerns regarding the pollution risks raised by new techniques for oil and gas extraction and coal mining, the EPA is developing an initiative to ensure that energy extraction activities are complying with federal environmental requirements and increasing its inspection and evaluation frequency. In June 2013, the EPA extended the current National Enforcement Initiatives, including the initiative related to Energy Extraction Activities, for 2014 through 2016. We cannot predict what the results of the current initiative or any future initiative will be, or whether federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted in this area. If new regulations are imposed related to oil and gas extraction, the volumes of natural gas that we transport and/or process could decline and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by changed regulations and increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits or plans developed thereunder. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations, or may have to implement contingencies or conditions in order to obtain such approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are also generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. For example, in August 2011, the U.S. EPA and the WDEQ conducted an inspection of the Leak Detection and Repair (“LDAR”) Program at the Casper Plant in Wyoming. In September 2011, TMID received a letter from the U.S. EPA alleging violations of the 31 Table of Contents Standards of Performance of Equipment Leaks for Onshore Natural Gas Processing Plant requirements under the CAA. In April 2013, TMID received a letter from the U.S. EPA concerning settlement of this matter. Settlement negotiations with the U.S. EPA are continuing, including resolution of more recently identified LDAR issues. We have agreed to a number of conditions in our environmental permits and associated plans, approvals and authorizations that require the implementation of environmental habitat restoration, enhancement and other mitigation measures that involve, among other things, ongoing maintenance and monitoring. Governmental authorities may require, and community groups and private persons may seek to require, additional mitigation measures in the future to further protect ecologically sensitive areas where we currently operate, and would operate if our facilities are extended or expanded, or if we construct new facilities, and we are unable to predict the effect that any such measures would have on our business, financial position, results of operations or prospects. Further, such existing laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. In addition to potential GHG regulations, there may also be potential regulations under the NSPS and/or the maximum available control technology standard that may affect us. The trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be materially different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas processing operations could affect our operations and result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues. A portion of our customers’ natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into shale formations to stimulate gas production. Hydraulic fracturing is currently exempt from federal regulation pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels), because hydraulic fracturing is excluded from the SDWA definition of “underground injection” and therefore is not subject to permitting and federal regulatory control pursuant to SDWA. However, public concerns have been raised related to its potential environmental impact. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations to more closely regulate hydraulic fracturing have been considered and, in some cases, adopted and implemented. For example, from time to time, legislation to further regulate hydraulic fracturing has been proposed in Congress, including repeal of the SDWA exemption for hydraulic fracturing, as well as to require disclosure for chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. An EPA investigation requested by a committee of the House of Representatives to assess the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater is underway, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012 and a final draft report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review in 2014. Reports prepared by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Shale Gas Subcommittee could also lead to further restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. In addition, EPA has announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA regarding wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production and, in November 2011, EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act, or the TSCA, to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Apart from federal legislation and EPA regulations, other federal agencies and states have proposed or adopted legislation or regulations restricting hydraulic fracturing. On May 24, 2013, the U.S. Department of Interior published a proposed rule in the Federal Register that includes disclosure requirements and other 32 Table of Contents mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. On August 4, 2011 a citizens’ group petitioned the EPA to promulgate rules under the TSCA imposing requirements related to testing, identification, recordkeeping, and disclosure of chemical substances and mixtures in chemicals used in oil and gas exploration and production and hydraulic fracturing operations. The EPA partially granted the petition on November 23, 2011. In partially granting the petition, the EPA explained that it would propose rules using TSCA authorities to obtain data on chemical substances and mixtures regarding hydraulic fracturing. The EPA denied the petition insofar as it requested that the EPA invoke TSCA authorities to collect information on chemicals used in the exploration and production sector in addition to those used in hydraulic fracturing. Some states have already imposed disclosure requirements associated with hydraulic fracturing, including states in which we operate. Moreover, some state and local authorities have considered or imposed new laws and rules related to hydraulic fracturing, including additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, chemical disclosure obligations and temporary or permanent bans or, in municipal settings, time, place and manner restrictions, on hydraulic fracturing in certain jurisdictions or in environmentally sensitive areas. For example, Wyoming has imposed regulations regarding disclosure of information regarding chemicals in well stimulation operations. We cannot predict whether any additional federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted in this area and if so, what their provisions would be. If additional levels of reporting, regulation or permitting moratoria were required or imposed related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas that we transport could decline and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, additional state legislation or regulation may impact our expansion plans by delaying implementation or requiring additional approvals or modifications to expansion plans. In addition, on April 17, 2012, the EPA approved final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production, pipelines and processing operations. These rules were published in the Federal Register on August 16, 2012 and became effective on October 15, 2012. For new or reworked hydraulically fractured gas wells, the rules require the control of emissions through flaring or reduced emission, or green, completions until 2015, when the rule requires the use of green completions by all such wells except wildcat (exploratory) and delineation gas wells and low reservoir pressure non-wildcat and non-delineation gas wells. The rules also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from wet seal and reciprocating compressors at production facilities, gathering systems, boosting facilities and onshore natural gas processing plants, effective October 15, 2012, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels at production facilities, gathering systems, boosting facilities and onshore natural gas processing plants, effective October 15, 2013. In addition, the rules revise existing requirements for volatile organic compound emissions from equipment leaks at onshore natural gas processing plants by lowering the leak definition for valves from 10,000 parts per million to 500 parts per million and requiring the monitoring of connectors, pumps, pressure relief devices and open-ended lines, effective October 15, 2012. These rules may therefore require a number of modifications to our and our customers’ operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. In October 2012 several challenges to EPA’s rules were filed by various parties, including environmental groups and industry associations. In a January 1, 2013 unopposed motion to hold this litigation in abeyance, EPA indicated that it may reconsider some aspects of the rule and has since reconsidered certain aspects of the rule. The case is currently in abeyance and EPA may reconsider other aspects of the rule. Depending on the outcome of such proceedings, the rules may be modified or rescinded or EPA may issue new rules, the costs of compliance with any modified or newly issued rules cannot be predicted. Additionally, on December 11, 2012, seven states submitted a notice of intent to sue the EPA to compel the agency to make a determination as to whether standards of performance limiting methane emissions from oil and gas sources are appropriate, and, if so, to promulgate performance standards for methane emissions from the oil and gas sector, which was not addressed in the EPA rule that became effective on October 15, 2012. The notice of intent also requested the EPA issue emission guidelines for the control of methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources. Depending on whether rules are promulgated and the applicability and restrictions in any promulgated rule, compliance with such rules could result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs. While we are not able at this time to estimate such additional costs, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant for us. Compliance with such rules may also make it more difficult for our customers to operate, 33 Table of Contents thereby reducing the volume of natural gas transported through our pipelines, which may adversely affect our business. Compliance with such rules could also generally result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, for us and our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential Increased Costs As a Result of EPA Regulation of Internal Combustion Engines Could Be Significant Internal combustion engines used in our operations are also subject to EPA regulation under the CAA. The EPA published new regulations on emissions of hazardous air pollutants from reciprocating internal combustion engines on August 20, 2010. On January 14, 2013, the EPA signed a final rule amending these regulations and it was published in the Federal Register on January 30, 2013. The EPA also revised the NSPS for stationary compression ignition and spark ignition internal combustion engines on June 28, 2011 and made minor amendments, included in the January 14, 2013 final rule. Compliance with these new regulations may require significant capital expenditures for physical modifications and may require operational changes as well. We are not able to estimate such increased costs, however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant for us. We are exposed to costs associated with lost and unaccounted for volumes. A certain amount of natural gas is naturally lost in connection with its transportation across a pipeline system, and under our contractual arrangements with our customers we are entitled to retain a specified volume of natural gas in order to compensate us for such lost and unaccounted for volumes as well as the natural gas used to run our compressor stations, which we refer to as fuel usage. Our pipeline tariff does not contain a fuel usage true-up mechanism. As such, the level of fuel usage and lost and unaccounted for volumes on our pipeline system may exceed the natural gas volumes retained from our customers as compensation for our fuel usage and lost and unaccounted for volumes pursuant to our contractual agreements and it will be necessary to purchase natural gas in the market to make up for the difference, which exposes us to commodity price risk. Future exposure to the volatility of natural gas prices as a result of gas imbalances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Approximately one-third of our contracted transportation and storage firm capacity is provided under long-term, fixed price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under our “negotiated rate” contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. If this occurs, it could decrease the cash flow realized by our systems and, therefore, the cash we have available for distributions to our unitholders. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate,” which is fixed between the pipeline and the shipper for the contract term and does not vary with changes in the level of cost-based “recourse rates”, provided that the affected customer is willing to agree to such rates and that the FERC has approved the negotiated rate agreement. Approximately one-third of our contracted transportation firm capacity is currently subscribed under such “negotiated rate” contracts. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be caused by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between “recourse rates” (if higher) and negotiated rates, under current FERC policy is generally not recoverable from other shippers. Any significant and prolonged change in or stabilization of natural gas prices could have a negative impact on our natural gas storage business. Historically, natural gas prices have been seasonal and volatile, which has enhanced demand for our storage services. The natural gas storage business has benefited from significant price fluctuations resulting from 34 Table of Contents seasonal price sensitivity, which impacts the level of demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge for such services. On a system-wide basis, natural gas is typically injected into storage between April and October when natural gas prices are generally lower and withdrawn during the winter months of November through March when natural gas prices are typically higher. However, the market for natural gas may not continue to experience volatility and seasonal price sensitivity in the future at the levels previously seen. If volatility and seasonality in the natural gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, then demand for our storage services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high natural gas prices would increase the cost of acquiring base gas and likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated storage expansion activities. Alternatively, an extended period of low natural gas prices could adversely impact storage values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Certain portions of our transportation, storage and processing facilities have been in service for several decades. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our facilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Significant portions of our transportation, storage and processing systems have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of our facilities could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our facilities could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Restrictions in our credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • redeem or repurchase units or make distributions under certain circumstances; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facility, including a failure to meet the required financial ratios and tests, could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to restrict or prohibit our ability to make quarterly distributions and declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together 35 Table of Contents with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Our future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact demand for our storage capacity, our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. There is a financing cost for our customers to store natural gas in our storage facilities. That financing cost is impacted by the cost of capital or interest rate incurred by the customer in addition to the commodity cost of the natural gas in inventory. Absent other factors, a higher financing cost adversely impacts the economics of storing natural gas for future sale. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for our storage capacity independent of other market factors. In addition, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our business may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in the global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are reduced energy demand and lower prices 36 Table of Contents for our services and increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers which could reduce our access to credit markets, raise the cost of such access or require us to provide additional collateral to our counterparties. Our ability to access available capacity under our credit facility could be impaired if one or more of our lenders fails to honor its contractual obligation to lend to us. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. The lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders. We rely primarily on revenues generated from natural gas transportation, storage and processing systems that we own, which are primarily located in the Rocky Mountain and Midwest regions of the United States. Due to our lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in these businesses or our areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for natural gas, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. We do not own most of the land on which the TIGT System and Midstream Facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations and subject us to increased costs. We do not own most of the land on which the TIGT System and Midstream Facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way, if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. For example, the West Frenchie Draw treating facility is located on land leased from the Wyoming Board of Land Commissioners pursuant to a contract that can be terminated at any time. Although many of these rights are perpetual in nature, we occasionally obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land for a specific period of time. If we were to be unsuccessful in renegotiating rights-of-way, we may need to exercise TIGT System’s eminent domain authority and might incur increased costs to maintain the TIGT System, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. Some rights-of-way for the TIGT System and other real property assets are shared with other pipeline systems and other assets owned by third parties. We or owners of the other pipeline systems may not have commenced or concluded eminent domain proceedings for some rights-of-way. In some instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens which have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. The TIGT System has federal eminent domain authority. Regardless, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, which may include any loss of value to the remainder of their property not being used by us, which are sometimes referred to as “severance damages.” Severance damages are often difficult to 37 Table of Contents quantify and their amount can be significant. In eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which our pipeline system is located. Our operations are dependent on our rights and ability to receive or renew the required permits and other approvals from governmental authorities and other third parties. Performance of our operations requires that we obtain and maintain numerous environmental and land use permits and other approvals authorizing our business activities. A decision by a governmental authority or other third party to deny, delay or restrictively condition the issuance of a new or renewed permit or other approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or other approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to initiate or continue operations at the affected location or facility. Expansion of our existing operations is also predicated on securing the necessary environmental or land use permits and other approvals, which we may not receive in a timely manner or at all. In order to obtain permits and renewals of permits and other approvals in the future, we may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential adverse impact that any proposed pipeline or processing-related activities may have on the environment, individually or in the aggregate, including on public and Indian lands. Certain approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites or the expansion of existing sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive and significantly lengthens the time needed to develop a site or pipeline alignment. Also, obtaining or renewing required permits or other approvals is sometimes delayed or prevented due to community opposition and other factors beyond our control. The denial of a permit or other approval essential to our operations or the imposition of restrictive conditions with which it is not practicable or feasible to comply could impair or prevent our ability to develop or expand a property or right-of-way. Significant opposition to a permit or other approval by neighboring property owners, members of the public or non-governmental organizations, or other third parties or delay in the environmental review and permitting process also could impair or delay our ability to develop or expand a property or right-of-way. New legal requirements, including those related to the protection of the environment, could be adopted at the federal, state and local levels that could materially adversely affect our operations (including our ability to store, transport or process natural gas or the pace of storing, transporting or processing natural gas), our cost structure or our customers’ ability to use our services. Such current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and we may not be able to obtain or renew permits or other approvals in the future. A shortage of skilled labor in the midstream natural gas industry could reduce labor productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The transportation, storage and processing of natural gas and the fractionation of NGLs requires skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially and adversely affected. If our labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs for employees, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For 38 Table of Contents example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 (except for the requirement for an auditor’s attestation report, as described below) beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2014. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to continue taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700 million in market value of our limited partner interests held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common units to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units and our trading price may be more volatile. Our election to take advantage of the JOBS Act extended accounting transition period may make our financial statements more difficult to compare to other public companies. Pursuant to the JOBS Act, as an “emerging growth company,” we must make an election to opt in or opt out of the extended transition period for any new or revised accounting standards that may be issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) or the SEC. We have elected to take advantage of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we can, for so long as we are an “emerging growth company,” adopt the standard for private companies. This may make comparison of our financial statements with any other public company that either is not an “emerging growth company” or has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible as a result of our use of different accounting standards. The outcome of future rate cases will determine the amount of income taxes that we will be allowed to recover. In May 2005, the FERC issued a statement of general policy permitting a pipeline to include in its cost-of-service computations an income tax allowance provided that an entity or individual has an actual or potential income tax liability on income from the pipeline’s public utility assets. The extent to which owners of pipelines have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis in rate cases where the amounts of the allowances will be established. An adverse determination by the FERC with respect to this issue could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. We may face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants and assets. We could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, “hacktivists,” or private individuals. The age, operating systems or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cyber security threats. We could also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information, otherwise known as “social engineering.” Our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions, could result in damage to our assets, safety incidents, damage to the environment, potential liability or the loss of contracts, and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to protect our information and telecommunication systems against disruptions or failures, our operations could be disrupted. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our business. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet and wireless communications, to process, transmit and store electronic information. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption due to system replacements, implementations and conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may have interruptions in our ability to service our customers. Although we attempt to eliminate or reduce these risks by using redundant systems, this disruption caused by the unavailability of our computer systems could nevertheless significantly disrupt our operations or may result in financial damage or loss due to, among other things, lost or misappropriated information. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates, including Tallgrass GP Holdings, which owns our general partner and the general partner of Tallgrass Development, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders. Tallgrass GP Holdings owns our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner. Tallgrass GP Holdings also owns and controls the general partner of Tallgrass Development. All of our current officers and a majority of the current directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Tallgrass GP Holdings. Certain of our directors are also officers or principals of Kelso or EMG, whose affiliated entities, along with certain members of our management, own and control Tallgrass GP Holdings. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Tallgrass GP Holdings. Conflicts of interest will arise between our general partner and its owners, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, 40 Table of Contents our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its owners over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Tallgrass GP Holdings or its owners to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the officers and directors of Tallgrass GP Holdings have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of Tallgrass GP Holdings and its owners, which may be contrary to our interests. Tallgrass GP Holdings may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets. • Tallgrass GP Holdings, its owners, and their respective affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and, other than Tallgrass Development’s obligation to offer us certain assets (if Tallgrass Development decides to sell such assets) pursuant to the right of first offer under the Omnibus Agreement, may offer business opportunities or sell midstream assets to third parties without first offering us the right to bid for them. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Tallgrass GP Holdings, its owners, and their respective affiliates in resolving conflicts of interest and exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders. • All of the current officers and a majority of the current directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Tallgrass GP Holdings and will owe fiduciary duties to Tallgrass GP Holdings. The officers of our general partner are also officers of the general partner of Tallgrass Development and will devote significant time to the business of Tallgrass Development. • Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner’s liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. • Disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with Tallgrass Development and its affiliates. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period. • Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $40 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated or general partner units or to our general partner in respect of the IDRs. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. 41 Table of Contents • Our general partner may limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including Tallgrass Development’s and its affiliates’ obligations under the Omnibus Agreement and their commercial agreements with us. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. • Our general partner may transfer its IDRs without unitholder approval. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s IDRs without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us and have limited obligations to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, including Kelso, EMG, Tallgrass GP Holdings and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Tallgrass Development, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, in the future, affiliates of our general partner and the entities owned or controlled by affiliates of our general partner, including Tallgrass Development, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets or to engage in such business opportunities, other than Tallgrass Development’s obligation to offer us certain assets (if Tallgrass Development decides to sell such assets) pursuant to the right of first offer under the Omnibus Agreement. While affiliates of our general partner may offer us the opportunity to buy these or other additional assets, these affiliates of our general partner, including Tallgrass Development, are not contractually obligated to do so, other than as described above, and we are unable to predict whether or when such opportunities may arise. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner, its executive officers and directors or any of its affiliates, including Tallgrass Development. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner, including Tallgrass Development, and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders. Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and Tallgrass Development’s general partner and its affiliates for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement and the Omnibus Agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and 42 Table of Contents Tallgrass Development’s general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and Tallgrass Development’s general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute our available cash to our unitholders. Accordingly, we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we intend to distribute our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in our credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders other than in certain circumstances where no unitholder approval is required. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by our general partner and its affiliates, including Tallgrass Development) after the subordination period has ended. Tallgrass Development currently owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common units and 100% of our outstanding subordinated units for a total limited partnership interest of approximately 64%. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Unlike most corporations, we are not required by NYSE rules to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE’s shareholder approval rules. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. If you are not an eligible taxable holder, you will not be entitled to allocations of income or loss or distributions or voting rights on your common units and your common units will be subject to redemption. In order to avoid any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by the FERC or an analogous regulatory 43 Table of Contents body, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If a holder of our common units (other than affiliates of our general partner) is not a person who fits the requirements to be an eligible taxable holder, such holder will not receive allocations of income or loss or distributions or voting rights on its units and will run the risk of having its units redeemed by us at the market price calculated in accordance with our partnership agreement as of the date of redemption. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing (which provides that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action). This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • whether to exercise its limited call right; • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner; • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; • whether to transfer the IDRs or any units it owns to a third party; and • whether or not to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. In addition, our partnership agreement provides that any construction or interpretation of our partnership agreement and any action taken pursuant thereto or any determination, in each case, made by our general partner in good faith, shall be conclusive and binding on all unitholders. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: • whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively 44 Table of Contents believed that the decision was in the best interests of our partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith; • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: • approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; • determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or • determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to select our general partner or elect members of its board of directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to select our general partner or elect its board of directors. Rather, the board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is appointed by Tallgrass GP Holdings, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. 45 Table of Contents Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. Unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Tallgrass Development owns an aggregate of approximately 64% of our outstanding common and subordinated units. This gives Tallgrass Development the ability to prevent the involuntary removal of our general partner. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of unitholder dissatisfaction with the performance of our general partner in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner and transferees of any of the foregoing, provided such transferee is an affiliate of the transferor, cannot vote on any matter. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Tallgrass GP Holdings to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. The IDRs of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its IDRs to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its IDRs. For example, a transfer of IDRs by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Tallgrass Development selling or contributing additional midstream assets to us, as Tallgrass Development would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. 46 Table of Contents We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which could negatively impact unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common units, we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank could have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • because the amount payable to holders of IDRs is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of IDRs will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner, including Tallgrass Development, may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Tallgrass Development currently holds 9,700,000 common units and 16,200,000 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. In addition, we have agreed to provide our general partner and its affiliates with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. For additional information, see Note 10 – Partnership Equity and Distributions to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Form 10-K. Our general partner may limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner may limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return 47 Table of Contents on investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Tallgrass Development, an affiliate of our general partner, currently owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), Tallgrass Development will own approximately 64% of our outstanding common units. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the IDRs, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to the IDRs, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. The holder or holders of a majority of the IDRs, which is currently our general partner, have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and the holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to transfer the IDRs at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the IDRs shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions. In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the IDRs will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common units equal to that number of common units which would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the IDRs in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit. It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may therefore desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our IDRs have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or 48 Table of Contents • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional tax on us by a state will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership 49 Table of Contents agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations of applicable law, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative changes or interpretations of applicable law at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such recent legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted or whether judicial or administrative interpretations of applicable law will change. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may 50 Table of Contents be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. A successful IRS challenge also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could 51 Table of Contents be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Tallgrass Development owns approximately 63% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by Tallgrass Development of all or a portion of its interests in us could result in a termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year if the termination occurs on a day other than December 31 and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you will likely become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the 52 Table of Contents various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property or conduct business in a number of states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 