Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, which could materially adversely affect our proposed operations, our business prospects, and financial condition, and the value of an investment in our business. There may be other factors that are not mentioned here or of which we are not presently aware that could also affect our business operations and prospects. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Operations We are a newly organized, development stage company in the start-up phase, and we have only recently commenced our primary product development programs We were incorporated on September 24, 2012 and on October 1, 2013 we acquired certain assets, including the patent portfolio built by Geron in its stem cell programs prior to Geron’s discontinuation of those programs during November 2011. Our initial product development programs will be based on the results of some of Geron’s discontinued programs, though we may make changes to the scope and focus of the programs that we conduct. We have only recently acquired the Geron stem cell assets and have only recently commenced work with the acquired technology and other assets. Our initial work is focused on determining the product candidates that we will initially seek to develop and on seeking funding and development collaborations for as many of them as possible. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and commercialize products based on the programs and technology we acquired from Geron. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flows Since our inception in September 2012, we have incurred operating losses and negative cash flow, and we expect to continue to incur losses and negative cash flow in the future. Our net losses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and the period from September 2012 (inception) to December 31, 2012 were $22,379,744 and $758,893, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $23,138,637 as of December 31, 2013. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 and our accumulated deficit as of that date include $17,458,766 charged as in-process research and development expenses (“IPR&D”) in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805-50 on account of our acquisition of certain assets from Geron. See Notes 2 and 3 to Financial Statements. BioTime previously funded our formation and operating costs but we do not expect BioTime to continue to do so in the future. We have limited cash resources and will depend upon future equity financings, research grants, financings through collaborations with third parties, and sales of BioTime common shares that we as a source of funding for our operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financing we need from any of those sources, or that any such financing that may become available will be on terms that are favorable to us and our shareholders. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel and key relationships could impair our research and development efforts Our operations are still in the start-up stage and we had only 20 employees as of December 31, 2013. We will need to recruit and hire additional qualified research scientists, laboratory technicians, clinical development, and management personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense and we may experience delays in hiring the qualified people that we need. The inability to attract and retain sufficient qualified management, scientific, or technical personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We will initially rely on BioTime to provide financial accounting management and personnel, and to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy and executing our product development plans. We will also rely on consultants and advisors who are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to perform services for us. We will spend a substantial amount of our capital on research and development but we might not succeed in developing products and technologies that are useful in medicine · The product development work we plan to do is costly, time consuming and uncertain as to its results. · We will attempt to develop new medical products and technologies that might not prove to be safe and efficacious in human medical applications. Many of the products and technologies that we will seek to develop have not been applied in human medicine and have only been used in laboratory studies in vitro or in animals. Only two of the product candidates that we have acquired have been used in clinical trials, and those were early stage trials involving only a small number of patients. 34 Table of Contents · If we are successful in developing a new technology or product, refinement of the new technology or product and definition of the practical applications and limitations of the technology or product may take years and require the expenditure of large sums of money. The amount and pace of research and development work that we can do or sponsor, and our ability to commence and complete clinical trials required to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approval of our products, depends upon the amount of money available to us · We may have to limit our laboratory research and development work based on the amount of our cash resources. · We plan to seek research and development grants from government agencies and to enter into collaborative product development agreements through which third parties will provide funding or otherwise bear the cost of research and development or clinical trials of our product candidates. There is no assurance that we will receive any such grants or that the amount of any grants that we may receive will be adequate for our needs. There is also no assurance that we will be able to enter into any agreements with third parties for the funding of the research and development or clinical trials of any of our products, or that the terms of any such agreements into which we may enter will be favorable to us and allow us to receive and retain a substantial portion of any revenues from the sale of any products that we may develop. · Unless we are able to generate sufficient revenue or raise additional funds when needed, it is likely that we will be unable to continue our planned activities, even if we make progress in our research and development projects. We will need to issue additional equity or debt securities in order to raise additional capital needed to pay our operating expenses · We plan to incur substantial research and product development expenses, and we will need to raise additional capital to pay operating expenses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from product sales, royalties, and license fees. · It is likely that additional sales of equity or debt securities will be required in the near future to meet our short-term capital needs, unless we receive substantial research grants and revenues from the sale of any products that receive regulatory approval or we are successful in licensing or sublicensing our technology and we receive substantial licensing fees and royalties. · Sales of additional equity securities could result in the dilution of the interests of present shareholders. The condition of the cells, cell lines and other biological materials that we acquired from Geron could impact the time and cost of commencing our research and product development programs The cells, cell lines and other biological materials that we acquired are being stored under cryopreservation protocols intended to preserve their functionality. However, the functional condition of those materials cannot be certified until they are tested in an appropriate laboratory setting by qualified scientific personnel using validated equipment, which may not be completed until the second quarter of 2014. To the extent that cells are not sufficiently functional for our purposes, we would need to incur the time and expense of regenerating cell lines from cell banks, or regenerating cell banks from feeder cells, which could delay and increase the cost of our research and development work. 35 Table of Contents Sales of any products we may develop may be adversely impacted by the availability of competing products · In order to compete with other products, particularly those that sell at lower prices, our products will have to provide medically significant advantages. · Physicians and hospitals may be reluctant to try a new product due to the high degree of risk associated with the application of new technologies and products in the field of human medicine. · There also is a risk that our competitors may succeed at developing safer or more effective products that could render our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Any products that receive regulatory approval may be difficult and expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale · hES derived therapeutic cells have only been produced on a small scale and not in quantities and at levels of purity and viability that will be needed for wide scale commercialization. If we are successful in developing products that consist of hES cells or other cells or products derived from hES or other cells, we will need to develop, alone or in collaboration with one or more pharmaceutical companies or contract manufacturers, technology for the commercial production of those products. · Our hES cell or other cell-based products are likely to be more expensive to manufacture on a commercial scale than most other drugs on the market today. The high cost of manufacturing a product will require that we charge our customers a high price for the product in order to cover our costs and earn a profit. If the price of our products is too high, hospitals and physicians may be reluctant to purchase our products, especially if lower priced alternative products are available, and we may not be able to sell our products in sufficient volumes to recover our costs of development and manufacture or to earn a profit. We do not have our own marketing, distribution, and sales resources for the commercialization of any products that we might successfully develop · If we are successful in developing marketable products, we will need to build our own marketing, distribution, and sales capability for our products, which would require the investment of significant financial and management resources, or we will need to find collaborative marketing partners, independent sales representatives, or wholesale distributors for the commercial sale of our products. · If we market products through arrangements with third parties, we may pay sales commissions to sales representatives or we may sell or consign products to distributors at wholesale prices. As a result, our gross profit from product sales may be lower than it would be if we were to sell our products directly to end users at retail prices through our own sales force. · There can be no assurance that we will able to negotiate distribution or sales agreements with third parties on favorable terms to justify our investment in our products or achieve sufficient revenues to support our operations. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals for our therapeutic product candidates We will need to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, data management companies, contract clinical research associates, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct any clinical trials that we may undertake for our products. We may also rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical development of therapeutic product candidates. If we outsource clinical trials we may be unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. If we enlist third parties to conduct clinical trials and they fail to successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our therapeutic product candidates. 36 Table of Contents We have assumed certain obligations and potential liabilities with regard to clinical trials conducted by Geron, and we do not yet know the scope of any resulting expense We have assumed Geron’s obligations to obtain information and prepare reports for the FDA about the health of patients who participated in clinical trials of Geron’s GRNOPC1 cell replacement therapy for spinal cord damage and its GRNVAC1 immunological therapy for certain cancers. Although the future cost of patient health information gathering and reporting is not presently determinable, we do not expect that the cost will be material to our financial condition. We have also assumed any liabilities to those patients that might arise as result of any injuries they may have incurred as a result of their participation in the clinical trials. We are not aware of any claims by patients alleging injuries suffered as a result of the Geron clinical trials, but if any claims are made and if liability can be established, the amount of any liability that we may incur, depending upon the nature and extent of any provable injuries incurred, could exceed any insurance coverage we may obtain and the amount of the liability could be material to our financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose the services of the key personnel upon whom we depend Our stem cell research program will be directed primarily by our Chief Executive Officer Dr. Thomas Okarma and by our President of Research and Development, Dr. Jane S. Lebkowski. The loss of the services of Dr. Okarma or Dr. Lebkowski could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of data for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Our growth and entry into new products, technologies and markets will place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. We will initially rely in part on financial systems maintained by BioTime and upon services provided by BioTime personnel. BioTime will allocate certain expenses among itself, us, and BioTime’s other subsidiaries, which creates a risk that the allocations may not accurately reflect the benefit of an expenditure or use of financial or other resources by us, BioTime as our parent company, and the BioTime subsidiaries among which the allocations are made. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry We will face certain risks arising from regulatory, legal, and economic factors that affect our business and the business of other pharmaceutical and biological product development companies. Because we are a small company with limited revenues and limited capital resources, we may be less able to bear the financial impact of these risks than larger companies that have substantial income and available capital. If we do not receive FDA and other regulatory approvals we will not be permitted to sell our products The cell-based products that we are developing cannot be sold until the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities approve the products for medical use. To date, long-term safety and efficacy has not been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our therapeutic product candidates. The need to obtain regulatory approval to market a new product means that: · we will have to conduct expensive and time consuming clinical trials of new products. The full cost of conducting and completing clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approval of a new product cannot be presently determined, but could exceed our current financial resources. · clinical trials and the regulatory approval process for a cell-based product can take several years to complete. As a result, we will incur the expense and delay inherent in seeking FDA and foreign regulatory approval of new products, even if the results of clinical trials are favorable. · data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory agency approvals. Delays in the regulatory approval process or rejections of an application for approval of a new drug or cell-based product may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory agency policy. · because the therapeutic products we plan to develop with hES and iPS technology involve the application of new technologies and approaches to medicine, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may subject those products to additional or more stringent review than drugs or biologics derived from other technologies. No therapeutic product based on hES or iPS technology has been approved by the FDA to date. · a product that is approved may be subject to restrictions on use. · the FDA can limit or withdraw approval of a product if problems arise. · we will face similar regulatory issues in foreign countries. Clinical trial failures can occur at any stage of the testing and we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent commercialization of our current or future therapeutic product candidates All of our product candidates are either at early stages of clinical development or at the preclinical or research stages of development. Clinical trial failures or delays can occur at any stage of the trials, and may be directly or indirectly caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: · delays in securing clinical investigators or trial sites for our clinical trials; · delays in obtaining Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) and other regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial; · slower than anticipated rates of patient recruitment and enrollment, or failing to reach the targeted number of patients due to competition for patients from other trials; · limited or no availability of coverage, reimbursement and adequate payment from health maintenance organizations and other third party payors for the use of agents used in our clinical trials; 38 Table of Contents · negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials; · unforeseen side effects interrupting, delaying, or halting clinical trials of our therapeutic product candidates, and possibly resulting in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our therapeutic product candidates; · unforeseen safety issues; · uncertain dosing issues; · approval and introduction of new therapies or changes in standards of practice or regulatory guidance that render our clinical trial endpoints or the targeting of our proposed indications obsolete; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment or problems with investigator or patient compliance with the trial protocols; · inability to replicate in large controlled studies safety and efficacy data obtained from a limited number of patients in uncontrolled trials; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and · unavailability of clinical trial supplies. Government imposed bans or restrictions, and religious, moral and ethical concerns on the use of hES cells could prevent us from developing and successfully marketing stem cell products · Government imposed bans or restrictions on the use of embryos or hES cells research and development in the United States and abroad could generally constrain stem cell research, thereby limiting the market and demand for any of our products that receive regulatory approval. In March 2009, President Obama lifted certain restrictions on federal funding of research involving the use of hES cells, and in accordance with President Obama’s executive order, the National Institutes of Health has adopted new guidelines for determining the eligibility of hES cell lines for use in federally funded research. The central focus of the proposed guidelines is to assure that hES cells used in federally funded research were derived from human embryos that were created for reproductive purposes, were no longer needed for this purpose, and were voluntarily donated for research purposes with the informed written consent of the donors. hES cells that were derived from embryos created for research purposes rather than reproductive purposes, and other hES cells that were not derived in compliance with the guidelines, are not eligible for use in federally funded research. · California law requires that stem cell research be conducted under the oversight of a stem cell research oversight (SCRO) committee. Many kinds of stem cell research, including the derivation of new hES cell lines, may only be conducted in California with the prior written approval of the SCRO. A SCRO could prohibit or impose restrictions on the research we plan to do. · The use of hES cells gives rise to religious, moral and ethical issues regarding the appropriate means of obtaining the cells and the appropriate use and disposal of the cells. These considerations could lead to more restrictive government regulations or could generally constrain stem cell research thereby limiting the market and demand for any of our products that receive regulatory approval. 39 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain and enforce patents and to protect our trade secrets, others could use our technology to compete with us, which could limit opportunities for us to generate revenues by licensing our technology and selling products · Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and maintain trade secrets in the United States and in other countries. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining and enforcing patents, our competitors could use our technology and create products that compete with our products, without paying license fees or royalties to us. · The preparation, filing, and prosecution of patent applications can be costly and time consuming. Our limited financial resources may not permit us to pursue patent protection of all of our technology and products throughout the world. · Even if we are able to obtain issued patents covering our technology or products, we may have to incur substantial legal fees and other expenses to enforce our patent rights in order to protect our technology and products from infringing uses. We may not have the financial resources to finance the litigation required to preserve our patent and trade secret rights. There is no certainty that our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents · We have acquired patent applications for technology that Geron developed, and we obtained licenses for a number of patent applications covering technology developed by others that we believe will be useful in producing new products, and which we believe may be of commercial interest to other companies that may be willing to sublicense the technology for fees or royalty payments. We may also file new patent applications in the future seeking patent protection for new technology or products that we develop ourselves or jointly with others. However, there is no assurance that any of the patent applications that we acquired or any licensed patent applications or any future patent applications that we may file in the United States or abroad will result in the issuance of patents. · In Europe, the European Patent Convention prohibits the granting of European patents for inventions that concern "uses of human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes." The European Patent Office is presently interpreting this prohibition broadly, and is applying it to reject patent claims that pertain to hES cells. However, this broad interpretation is being challenged through the European Patent Office appeals system. As a result, we do not yet know whether or to what extent we will be able to obtain patent protection for our hES cell technologies in Europe. · The 2012 Supreme Court decision in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., will need to be considered if we attempt to develop diagnostic methods, since the Court denied patent protection for the use of a mathematical correlation of the presence of a well-known naturally occurring metabolite as a means of determining proper drug dosage. The claims in the contested patents that were the subject of the Supreme Court decision in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc. were directed to measuring the serum level of a drug metabolite and adjusting the dosing regimen of the drug based on the metabolite level. The Supreme Court said that a patent claim that merely claimed a correlation between the blood levels of a drug metabolite and the best dosage of the drug was not patentable subject matter because it did no more than recite a correlation that occurs in nature. Natural phenomena alone have been held by the courts to be unpatentable subject matter. Although we do not expect that the development of similar diagnostic products will be a significant part of our business, the holding in Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc. may limit our ability to obtain patent protection on diagnostic methods that merely recite a correlation between a naturally occurring event and a diagnostic outcome associated with that event. The patent protection for our product candidates or products may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value, which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue The patents for our product candidates have varying expiration dates. When these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. As a result we may not be able to recover our development costs. In some of the larger economic territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension/restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product candidate's regulatory review. We cannot, however, be certain that an extension will be granted or, if granted, what the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extended period will be. In addition, even though some regulatory agencies may provide some other exclusivity for a product candidate under its own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product candidate or obtain the exclusive time period. 40 Table of Contents The process of applying for and obtaining patents can be expensive and slow · The preparation and filing of patent applications, and the maintenance of patents that are issued, may require substantial time and money. · A patent interference proceeding may be instituted with the USPTO when more than one person files a patent application covering the same technology, or if someone wishes to challenge the validity of an issued patent. At the completion of the interference proceeding, the USPTO will determine which competing applicant is entitled to the patent, or whether an issued patent is valid. Patent interference proceedings are complex, highly contested legal proceedings, and the USPTO’s decision is subject to appeal. This means that if an interference proceeding arises with respect to any of our patent applications, we may experience significant expenses and delay in obtaining a patent, and if the outcome of the proceeding is unfavorable to us, the patent could be issued to a competitor rather than to us. · A derivation proceeding may be instituted by the USPTO or an inventor alleging that a patent or application was derived from the work of another inventor. · Post Grant Review under the new America Invents Act will make available opposition-like proceedings in the United States. As with the USPTO interference proceedings, Post Grant Review proceedings will be very expensive to contest and can result in significant delays in obtaining patent protection or can result in a denial of a patent application. · Oppositions to the issuance of patents may be filed under European patent law and the patent laws of certain other countries. As with the USPTO interference proceedings, these foreign proceedings can be very expensive to contest and can result in significant delays in obtaining a patent or can result in a denial of a patent application. We have assumed Geron’s appeal of two adverse patent rulings, and if the appeal is not successful, we may not realize value from the Geron patent applications at issue in the appeal and might be precluded from developing therapies to treat certain diseases, such as diabetes We have been substituted for Geron as a party in interest in an appeal filed by Geron in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on September 13, 2012, appealing two adverse rulings in favor of ViaCyte, Inc. by the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences. These rulings related to interference proceedings involving patent filings relating to definitive endoderm cells. Geron had requested that the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences declare this interference after ViaCyte was granted patent claims that conflicted with subject matter Geron filed in a patent application having an earlier priority date. Those Geron patent applications are among the patent assets that Geron has contributed to us. We have assumed all liabilities relating to the ViaCyte Appeal and the related interference proceedings, including the costs of litigation, other than expenses incurred by Geron prior to the closing of the asset contribution transaction under the Asset Contribution Agreement. Appeals of this nature may involve costly and time-consuming legal proceedings. If we are not successful in the ViaCyte Appeal, ViaCyte would retain its patent claims directed to definitive endoderm. Definitive endoderm is an early pre-cursor of numerous cell types including liver and β-cells of the pancreas that could potentially treat diabetes, and it is likely that the derivation of any of the endodermal lineage cells from embryonic stem cells would necessarily pass through the definitive endoderm stage. As a result, we would be unable to develop and commercialize those cell types without a license from ViaCyte, and we may be unable to realize value from the Geron patent applications at issue in the appeal. 41 Table of Contents We may be subject to patent infringement claims that could be costly to defend, which may limit our ability to use disputed technologies, and which could prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of some of our products, require us to pay licensing fees to have freedom to operate and/or result in monetary damages or other liability for us The success of our business will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing patents and other proprietary rights of others. If the technology that we use infringes a patent held by others, we could be sued for monetary damages by the patent holder or its licensee, or we could be prevented from continuing research, development, and commercialization of products that rely on that technology, unless we are able to obtain a license to use the patent. The cost and availability of a license to a patent cannot be predicted, and the likelihood of obtaining a license at an acceptable cost would be lower if the patent holder or any of its licensees is using the patent to develop or market a product with which our product would compete. If we could not obtain a necessary license, we would need to develop or obtain rights to alternative technologies, which could prove costly and could cause delays in product development, or we could be forced to discontinue the development or marketing of any products that were developed using the technology covered by the patent. Our patents may not protect any of our products from competition We have acquired patents and patent applications filed in the United States, Canada, the European Union countries, and in other foreign countries for a variety of hES and iPS technologies. · We might not be able to obtain any additional patents, and any patents that we do obtain might not be comprehensive enough to provide us with meaningful patent protection. · There will always be a risk that our competitors might be able to successfully challenge the validity or enforceability of any patent issued to us. · In addition to interference proceedings, the USPTO can reexamine issued patents at the request of a third party seeking to have the patent invalidated. This means that patents owned or licensed by us may be subject to reexamination and may be lost if the outcome of the reexamination is unfavorable to us. Our patents may be subject to inter partes review (replacing the reexamination proceeding), a proceeding in which a third party can challenge the validity of one of our patents. If we fail to meet our obligations under license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends Our business will depend in part on several technologies that are based in part on technology licensed from third parties, including the University of Colorado, the University of California, and the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, including payment obligations and obligations to pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents or technology. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products, and our ability to raise capital, could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, we would not be able to continue to use the licensed technology in our business. The price and sale of any of our products that receive regulatory approval may be limited by health insurance coverage and government regulation Success in selling any of our products that receive regulatory approval may depend in part on the extent to which health insurance companies, HMOs, and government health administration authorities such as Medicare and Medicaid will pay for the cost of the products and related treatment. Until we actually introduce a new product into the medical market place we will not know with certainty whether adequate health insurance, HMO, and government coverage will be available to permit the product to be sold at a price high enough for us to generate a profit. In some foreign countries, pricing or profitability of health care products is subject to government control which may result in low prices for our products. In the United States, there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls, and new proposals are likely to be made in the future. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationship With BioTime We are a subsidiary of BioTime, and accordingly our business is substantially controlled by BioTime BioTime owns approximately 71.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock as a whole, and also holds warrants that, if exercised, would increase its ownership by approximately 2.2%. This means that BioTime will have the voting power, through its ownership of shares of our Series B Common Stock, to elect our entire Board of Directors and to control our management. BioTime could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of BioTime conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control that might be beneficial to our other shareholders. As the majority shareholder, BioTime will have the voting power to approve or disapprove any matter or corporate transaction presented to our shareholders for approval, including but not limited to · any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · any merger or consolidation of us with another company; · any recapitalization or reorganization of our capital stock; · any sale of assets or purchase of assets; or · a corporate dissolution or a plan of liquidation of our business. We will initially rely upon BioTime for certain services and resources Although we have our own research facilities, scientific personnel, and some management personnel, we will initially rely on BioTime to provide certain management and administrative services, including patent prosecution, certain legal services, accounting, financial management, and controls over financial accounting and reporting. We have entered into a Shared Facilities and Services Agreement (“Shared Facilities Agreement”) with BioTime under which we have agreed to bear costs allocated to us by BioTime for the use of BioTime human resources and for services and materials provided for our benefit by BioTime. We will pay BioTime 105% of its costs of providing personnel and services to us, and for any use of its facilities by us, including an allocation of general overhead based on that use. We may also share the services of some research personnel with BioTime. If BioTime’s human resources and facilities are not sufficient to serve both BioTime’s needs and ours, we will have to hire additional personnel of our own, either on a full-time or part-time basis, as employees or as consultants, and the cost of doing so could be greater than the costs that would be allocated to us by BioTime. Also, any new personnel that we may need to hire may not be as familiar with our business or operations as BioTime’s personnel, which means that we would incur the expense and inefficiencies related to training new employees or consultants. A majority of our directors are also directors of BioTime Five of the six members of our Board of Directors also serve on the BioTime Board of Directors, and some also serve on the Boards of Directors of one or more of BioTime’s other subsidiaries. This commonality of directors means that we will not have a Board of Directors making business decisions on our behalf independent from BioTime. Even those of our directors who do not serve on the BioTime Board of Directors will be elected to our Board of Directors by BioTime, and they may be removed from our Board by BioTime, as the majority shareholder. 43 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest may arise from our relationship with BioTime Our relationship with BioTime could give rise to certain conflicts of interest that could have an impact on our research and development programs, business opportunities, and operations generally. · We and BioTime or any of its other subsidiaries may determine to engage in research and development of the same or similar products or technologies, or products that would otherwise compete in the market place. Even if we utilize different technologies than BioTime or its other subsidiaries, we could find ourselves in competition with them for research scientists, financing and other resources, licensing, manufacturing, and distribution arrangements, and for customers if we and BioTime or another BioTime subsidiary both bring products to market. · Because we are a subsidiary of BioTime, BioTime could prevent us from engaging in research and development programs, investments, business ventures, or agreements to develop, license, or acquire products or technologies that would or might compete with those owned, licensed, or under development by BioTime or any of its other subsidiaries. · BioTime may determine that some of our patents or technology would be useful in its business or that of another BioTime subsidiary, and BioTime or another BioTime subsidiary may hold patents or technology that we may determine would be useful in our business. In such cases we may enter into license or sublicense agreements with BioTime or another BioTime subsidiary for the use of such patents or technology. Conflicts of interest will arise in determining the scope and financial terms of any such licenses or sublicenses, including the fields of use permitted, licensing fees, and royalties, if any, and other matters. · BioTime and its other subsidiaries will engage for their own accounts in research and product development programs, investments, and business ventures, and we will not be entitled to participate or to receive an interest in those programs, investments, or business ventures. BioTime and its other subsidiaries will not be obligated to present any particular research and development, investment, or business opportunity to us, even if the opportunity would be within the scope of our research and development plans or programs, business objectives, or investment policies. These opportunities may include, for example, opportunities to acquire businesses or assets, including but not limited to patents and other intellectual property that could be used by us or by BioTime or by any of BioTime’s other subsidiaries. Our respective boards of directors will have to determine which company should pursue those opportunities, taking into account relevant facts and circumstances at the time, such as the financial and other resources of the companies available to acquire and utilize the opportunity, and the best “fit” between the opportunity and the business and research and development programs of the companies. However, since BioTime will have the ultimate power to elect the members of our Board of Directors, BioTime may have the ultimate say in decision making with respect to the allocation of opportunities. · If we enter into any patent or technology license or sublicense, or any other agreement with BioTime or with another BioTime subsidiary, the BioTime companies that are parties to the agreement may have a conflict of interest in determining how and when they should enforce their rights under the agreement if the other BioTime company that is a party were to default or otherwise fail to perform any of its obligations under the agreement. · One of our significant assets is 8,902,077 BioTime common shares that we acquired from BioTime through the Asset Contribution Agreement. We expect to sell the BioTime common shares from time to time, or to pledge those shares as collateral for loans, to raise capital to finance our operations. Because a sale of those shares could have a depressing effect on the market value of BioTime common shares, BioTime will have a continuing interest in the number of shares we sell, the prices at which we sell the shares, and time and manner in which the shares are sold. Further, we may need or find it desirable to sell BioTime common shares at the same time as BioTime, or other BioTime subsidiaries that hold BioTime common shares, also desire to sell some of their BioTime common shares. Concurrent sales of BioTime common shares by us, BioTime, or other BioTime subsidiaries could have a depressing effect on the market price of the BioTime common shares, lowering the price at which we and they are able to sell BioTime common shares and resulting in lower net proceeds from the sales. We plan to coordinate any future sales of our BioTime common shares with BioTime and its other subsidiaries in order to provide an orderly and controlled process for raising capital through the sale of BioTime shares. This will include an agreement as to the number of shares to be sold, the time period or “market window” for selling shares, the use of a common securities broker-dealer, and a fair allocation of net sales based on average sales prices during any trading day on which we and they sell BioTime shares. 44 Table of Contents · Each conflict of interest will be resolved by our respective boards of directors in keeping with their fiduciary duties and such policies as they may implement from time to time. However, the terms and conditions of patent and technology licenses and other agreements between us and BioTime or other BioTime subsidiaries will not be negotiated on an arm’s-length basis due to BioTime’s ownership of a controlling interest in us and due to the commonality of directors serving on our respective boards of directors. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If we fail to enter into and maintain successful strategic alliances for our therapeutic product candidates, we may have to reduce or delay our product development or increase our expenditures An important element of our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our therapeutic product candidates will be entering into strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants to advance our programs and enable us to maintain our financial and operational capacity. We will face significant competition in seeking appropriate alliances. We may not be able to negotiate alliances on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to create and maintain suitable alliances, we may have to limit the size or scope of, or delay, one or more of our product development or research programs, or we will have to increase our expenditures and will need to obtain additional funding, which may be unavailable or available only on unfavorable terms. If we are able to enter into product development and marketing arrangements with pharmaceutical companies, we may license product development, manufacturing, and marketing rights to the pharmaceutical company or to a joint venture company formed with the pharmaceutical company. Under such arrangements we might receive only a royalty on sales of the products developed or an equity interest in a joint venture company that develops the product. As a result, our revenues from the sale of those products may be substantially less than the amount of revenues and gross profits that we might receive if we were to develop, manufacture, and market the products ourselves. We may become dependent on possible future collaborations to develop and commercialize many of our product candidates and to provide the manufacturing, regulatory compliance, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities required for the success of our business We may enter into various kinds of collaborative research and development, manufacturing, and product marketing agreements to develop and commercialize our products. Any future milestone payments and cost reimbursements from collaboration agreements could provide an important source of financing for our research and development programs, thereby facilitating the application of our technology to the development and commercialization of our products, but there are risks associated with entering into collaboration arrangements. There is a risk that we could become dependent upon one or more collaborative arrangements for product development or manufacturing or as a source of revenues from the sale of any products that may be developed by us alone or through one of the collaborative arrangements. A collaborative arrangement upon which we might depend might be terminated by our collaboration partner or they might determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of our products. A collaboration partner also may not be precluded from independently pursuing competing products and drug delivery approaches or technologies. There is a risk that a collaboration partner might fail to perform its obligations under the collaborative arrangements or may be slow in performing its obligations. In addition, a collaboration partner may experience financial difficulties at any time that could prevent it from having available funds to contribute to the collaboration. If a collaboration partner fails to conduct its product development, manufacturing, commercialization, regulatory compliance, sales and marketing or distribution activities successfully and in a timely manner, or if it terminates or materially modifies its agreements with us, the development and commercialization of one or more product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue product development, manufacturing, and commercialization on our own. 45 Table of Contents We have no experience in manufacturing, marketing, selling or distributing products, and we may need to rely on marketing partners or contract sales companies if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval Even if we are able to develop our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals, we have no experience or capabilities of our own in manufacturing, marketing, selling or distributing any of the products that we plan to develop. Accordingly, we will be dependent on our ability to build our own manufacturing, marketing, and distribution capability for our products, which would require the investment of significant financial and management resources, or we will need to find third parties to manufacture our products, and collaborative marketing partners or contract sales companies for commercial sale of those products. Even if we find one or more potential third party manufacturers and marketing partners, of which there can be no assurance, we may not be able to negotiate manufacturing, licensing, or marketing contracts on favorable terms to justify our investment or achieve adequate revenues and margins. Risks Pertaining to Our Common Stock Ownership of our common stock will entail certain risks associated with the volatility of prices for our shares and the fact that we do not pay dividends on our common stock. There is no public market for our common stock There presently is no public market for any series of our common stock any of our other securities, including our warrants. We plan to arrange for the trading of our Series A Shares on the OTC Bulletin Board upon completion of the Series A Distribution. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may provide less liquidity than trading on a national securities exchange such as the NYSE MKT or the Nasdaq Stock Market. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that an active market for our Series A Shares will develop or, if a market does develop, that it will be sustained. Because we are engaged in the development of stem cell therapeutic products, the price of our common stock may rise and fall rapidly The market price of our common stock, including both Series A Shares and Series B Shares, like that of the shares of many biotechnology companies, may be highly volatile. The price of our common stock may rise or fall rapidly as a result of a number of factors, including: · sales or potential sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, whether Series A Shares or Series B Shares; · results of preclinical testing or clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; · announcements about us or about our competitors, including clinical trial results, regulatory approvals, new product introductions and commercial results; · the cost of our development programs; · the success of competitive products or technologies; · litigation and other developments relating to our issued patents or patent applications or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · conditions in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; · actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts; 46 Table of Contents · variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us, including the failure of our earnings to meet analysts’ expectations; and · general economic, industry and market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The stock markets in general, and the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnological companies in particular, have been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market price of the equity securities without regard to the operating performance of the issuing companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry factors and general economic and political conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, including both Series B Shares and Series A Shares. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following the Series A Distribution, or the perception that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The 6,537,779 Series A Shares that will be distributed to Geron’s stockholders in the Series A Distribution will be tradable without restriction. We have agreed to register for sale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) the 2,136,000 Series B Shares that we sold to an investor, and up to 350,000 additional Series B Shares that the investor may acquire by exercising its warrants, and the Series A Shares into which those Series B Shares may be converted in the future. We have agreed to file a registration statement covering those Series B Shares and warrants promptly after the date on which we become eligible to register those securities on Form S-3. Under the rules for the use of Form S-3, the earliest date on which we will become eligible to register securities in a secondary offering on Form S-3 will be September 27, 2014. We have not registered for sale or transfer under the Securities Act any of the 21,823,340 Series B Shares or 3,150,000 warrants that BioTime owns, or the Series B Shares that it may receive if it exercises its warrants. However, BioTime reserves the right to sell its Series B Shares, or Series A Shares into which its Series B Shares may be converted, and the warrants in the future or to distribute them to its shareholders. 47 Table of Contents Because we do not pay dividends, our common stock may not be a suitable investment for anyone who needs to earn dividend income We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock. For the foreseeable future we anticipate that any earnings generated in our business will be used to finance the growth of our business and will not be paid out as dividends to our shareholders. This means that our common stock may not be a suitable investment for anyone who needs to earn income from their investments. The price of our common stock, and the value of our assets, will be affected by changes in the value of the BioTime common shares that we own We received 8,902,077 BioTime common shares under the Asset Contribution Agreement. The value of our common stock will reflect, in part, the value of the BioTime common shares that we hold. The value of the BioTime common shares we hold will vary with the price at which BioTime common shares trade in the public market. The market price of BioTime common shares will be impacted by a number of factors, including the results of BioTime’s operations. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our common stock, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our stock If a market for any series of our common stock develops, the trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about our business and our common stock. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of those shares. If securities analysts do cover our common stocks, they could issue reports or recommendations that are unfavorable to the price of our shares, and they could downgrade a previously favorable report or recommendation, and in either case our share price could decline as a result of the report. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover our common stock or fails to publish regular reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock and our preferred stock In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 150,000,000 shares of common stock, consisting of 75,000,000 Series A Shares and 75,000,000 Series B Shares. We are also authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. As of March 1, 2014, we had issued and outstanding 6,537,779 Series A Shares and 23,961,040 Series B Shares. We have also reserved 3,500,000 Series B Shares for issuance upon the exercise of the warrants, and 4,500,000 Series B Shares for issuance under a stock option and stock purchase plan. The Series B Shares will be convertible into Series A Shares after the completion of the Series A Distribution and the BioTime Warrants Distribution. We may issue additional Series A Shares, Series B Shares, or other securities in order to raise additional capital, or in connection with hiring or retaining employees or consultants, or in connection with future acquisitions of licenses to technology or rights to acquire products, in connection with future business acquisitions, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock having rights, preferences, and privileges senior to the rights of our common stock with respect to dividends, rights to share in distributions of our assets if we liquidate our company, or voting rights. Any preferred stock may also be convertible into Series A Shares or Series B Shares on terms that would be dilutive to holders of common stock. 48 Table of Contents Sales of certain Series A Shares may have a temporary impact on the market price of our common stock, including the Series B Shares Subject to certain limitations, Geron has agreed to distribute to its stockholders, on a pro rata basis, the Series A Shares it received from us in exchange for its stem cell assets. Under the Asset Contribution Agreement, fractional shares will not be distributed and instead will be aggregated and sold and the proceeds of the sale will be distributed ratably to Geron stockholders who would otherwise be entitled to receive fractional shares. Also, in lieu of distributing the Series A Shares in the Excluded Jurisdictions, the Series A Shares otherwise issuable to Geron stockholders residing there will be sold for cash and the net cash proceeds will be distributed ratably to them. The sale of those Series A Shares could have a temporary depressing effect on the price at which Series A Shares trade in the market. Unless our Series A Shares are approved for listing on a national securities exchange they will be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules that impose restrictive sales practice requirements If we are unable to obtain approval from a national securities exchange to list our Series A Shares, those shares could become subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules if the shares have a market value of less than $5.00 per share. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to include any stock that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception for stock traded on a national securities exchange. The SEC regulations impose restrictive sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. An accredited investor generally is a person whose individual annual income exceeded $200,000, or whose joint annual income with a spouse exceeded $300,000 during the past two years and who expects their annual income to exceed the applicable level during the current year, or a person with net worth in excess of $1,000,000, not including the value of the investor’s principal residence and excluding mortgage debt secured by the investor’s principal residence up to the estimated fair market value of the home, except that any mortgage debt incurred by the investor within 60 days prior to the date of the transaction shall not be excluded from the determination of the investor’s net worth unless the mortgage debt was incurred to acquire the residence. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. This means that if we are unable to list our Series B Shares on a national securities exchange, the ability of shareholders to sell their common shares in the secondary market could be adversely affected. If a transaction involving a penny stock is not exempt from the SEC’s rule, a broker-dealer must deliver a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market to each investor prior to a transaction. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and its registered representative, current quotations for the penny stock, and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the customer’s account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We are an "emerging growth company," and may elect to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) December 31, 2018; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. 49 Table of Contents We will incur costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives As a public reporting company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will entail significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we expect that these rules and regulations may make it difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept low policy limits and coverage. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, including, an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. Although, as a subsidiary of BioTime, we have already implemented certain procedures intended to comply with Section 404, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that neither we nor, when required, our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 