D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Global economic conditions could adversely affect our financial performance The global financial crisis and ensuing global recession in 2008 and 2009 had a significant adverse effect on the development of large-scale infrastructure and real estate projects worldwide. More recently, economic concerns in Europe, slower growth in China and declines in global commodity, in particular oil and gas, prices has generated economic uncertainty which could adversely affect private- and public-sector investments. Future global economic conditions, in particular fluctuations in commodity prices and financings costs, may impact our clients’ 15 Table of Contents investment decisions. Should our clients choose to postpone or suspend new investments, or delay or cancel the execution of existing projects, as a result of global economic conditions, demand for our products and services, including our backlog, would decline, which may result in a decline in revenues and in under-utilization of our capacity. In addition, our business may be impacted by adverse economic developments even after economic conditions have improved because of the lag time between when investments decisions are made and the projects are executed. Furthermore, financial difficulties suffered by our clients, joint operation partners, subcontractors or suppliers due to global economic conditions could result in payment delays or defaults, or increase our costs or adversely impact our project execution. Accordingly, a global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may not be able to continue the historic growth of our business We have experienced rapid growth in our operations in recent years and our strategy is to continue to grow our operations, including through international expansion. However, we may not be able to continue to grow our business at the same pace as in recent years, or at all. Our organic revenues (i.e., excluding the results of all acquisitions since 2011) grew at a CAGR of 23.0% from 2010 to 2014 (under IFRS). Our organic revenues grew 10.6% in 2014 from 2013. The pace at which we are able to grow our business could be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others, a slowdown in Peru’s recent rapid economic growth and its substantial investment in infrastructure, increased competition, and our capacity to increase scale and manage growth in our company. Growth can place significant demands on our management and operating structure, and too rapid growth may overwhelm our operating capacity. In addition, sustained growth will require us to recruit a large number of talented professionals and we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire sufficient engineers or other personnel with the expertise and experience we require. Nor can we assure you that as our company continues to grow we will be able to maintain our performance standards and corporate values across our entire organization. Failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant competition in each of our markets Each of the markets in which we operate is competitive. We compete on the basis of, among other factors, price, performance, product and service quality, skill and execution capability, client relations, reputation and brand, and health, safety and environmental record. We face significant competition from both local and international players. Some of these competitors may have greater resources than us or specialized expertise in certain sectors. In addition, a portion of our business is derived from open bidding processes which can be highly competitive. Certain of our markets are highly fragmented with a large number of companies competing for market share. Our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or accept terms and conditions in a contract that we might not deem acceptable. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not face new competition from industry players entering or expanding their operations in our markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our ability to continue to grow our business or maintain our market share would be affected. In addition, because one of the factors on which we generally compete is price, increased competition could impact our operating margins. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by competition in our markets. A major change in Peruvian government policies could affect our business Our business is significantly affected by national, regional and municipal government policies and regulation, including with respect to infrastructure concessions or similar contracts to the private sector, public spending in infrastructure investment, and government housing subsidies, among others. Any adverse change in government policies with respect to these matters could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Social conflicts may disrupt infrastructure projects Despite Peru’s ongoing economic growth and stabilization, high levels of poverty and unemployment and social and political tensions continue to be pervasive problems in the country. Peru has, from time to time, experienced social and political turmoil, including riots, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. In recent years certain regions experienced strikes and protests related mainly to the environmental impact of mining activities, which resulted in commercial disruptions, including in the departments of Cajamarca and Arequipa. These protests may lead to the suspension of mining projects. Social conflicts may disrupt, delay or suspend infrastructure projects in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. New projects may require the prior approval of local indigenous communities In September 2011, Peru enacted Law No. 29,785, regarding the Prior Consultation Right of Local Indigenous Communities, in accordance with the International Labor Organization Convention No. 169 (Ley del Derecho a la Consulta Previa a los Pueblos Indígenas y Originarios, Reconocido en el Convenio 169 de la Organización Internacional del Trabajo). This law establishes a prior consultation procedure (procedimiento de consulta previa) that the Peruvian government must carry out with local indigenous communities, whose rights may be directly affected by new legislative or administrative measures, including the granting of certain permits or new concessions or similar contracts such as for mining, energy and oil and gas projects. Local indigenous communities do not have a veto right; upon completion of this prior consultation procedure, the Peruvian government retains the discretion to approve or reject the applicable legislative or administrative measure. We cannot assure you that these consultation procedures will not adversely affect new projects and concessions. Accordingly, our business and financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully expand outside of Peru One of our key strategies is to continue to expand our operations outside of Peru, particularly in Chile and Colombia, and we expect that our international operations will become a more significant part of our consolidated business in future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replicate our success in Peru in other countries. Our international expansion is subject to additional challenges, including: our ability to assimilate cultural differences and practices; our limited familiarity with local laws, regulators and contractors; our ability to attract and manage foreign personnel; the absence of a local workforce formed in our corporate values and familiar with our operations; competition in foreign markets, including from industry players with significantly greater local experience and reputation; and other risks specific to these countries. Many countries in Latin America have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. If we are unable to overcome these challenges, we may not be able to successfully expand internationally. We may not be able to make successful acquisitions Part of our strategy is to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to expand our operations and geographic footprint, especially in Chile and Colombia. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, or, if we do, we may overpay for these acquisitions or may not otherwise be able to negotiate terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. We may also face difficulties obtaining financing to pay for acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals, including antitrust approvals, required to consummate acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we are able to successfully consummate an acquisition, we may encounter challenges in integrating the acquired business effectively and profitably into our operations. The integration of an acquisition involves a number of factors that may affect our operations, including diversion of management’s attention, difficulties in retaining personnel and entry into unfamiliar markets. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of productivity anticipated or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have traditionally experienced, including new geographic, market, operating and financial risks. Moreover, acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies. Even if such liabilities are assumed by the sellers, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will meet our strategic objectives. 17 Table of Contents Our backlog and our ratio of historical backlog to revenues may not be reliable indicators of future revenues or profit Our backlog amount is subject to revision over time and our ability to realize revenues from our backlog is subject to a number of uncertainties. Cancellations, scope adjustments or deferrals may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog and could reduce the amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn. Contracts may also remain in our backlog for an extended period of time and poor performance could also impact our profit from the contracts in our backlog. In addition, our backlog is expressed in U.S. dollars based on period-end exchange rates while a significant portion of our contracts are payable in nuevos soles or other local currencies. As a result, any depreciation of local currency would diminish the amount of revenues eventually earned relative to backlog. Moreover, one client, Ecopetrol, concentrates 86.4% of Morelco’s backlog, and another client, Rio Alto, concentrates 39.2% of Stracon’s backlog. Accordingly, the amount of our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or profits related to the performance of the related contracts. Our backlog may not grow at recent historic rates and may decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue obtaining sufficient contracts in the future in number and magnitude to continue to grow our backlog. Additionally, the amount of new contracts signed can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to factors that are beyond our control. The ratio of our historical backlog to revenues earned in subsequent years is volatile and substantially affected by a number of factors, some of which are outside our control, including levels of contract scope adjustments and our ability to enter into new contracts (which are substantially influenced by general economic conditions), delays and cancellations, foreign exchange rate movements, and our ability to increase the scale of our operations to expand the amount of work we carry out beyond that previously contracted. Accordingly, historical correlations between backlog and revenues may not recur in future periods. In particular, you should not assume that the ratio of our future E&C segment revenues for 2015 and 2016 to backlog as of December 31, 2014 that is currently expected to be realized in each of those years will be comparable to our historic ratios shown in “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Backlog—E&C Backlog.” Our success depends on key personnel Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the services of our senior management, board of directors and other key personnel (including, among others, our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer). Members of our management team are not subject to long-term employment agreements or non-competition agreements with us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our current senior management or members of our board of directors, nor can we assure you that, in such event, we would be able to find suitable replacements. The loss of the services of some of our senior management or members of our board of directors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. In addition, the success of our business depends on our ongoing ability to attract, train and retain qualified engineers and other personnel. In recent years, the availability in Peru of qualified personnel who have the necessary expertise and experience has been lower than demand and, therefore, competition for human resources has become intense. We cannot assure that we will be able to hire and retain the number of qualified personnel required to meet the needs of, or to grow, our business. If we are unable to attract, train and retain the qualified personnel that we require at reasonable cost, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our reputation for the quality, reliability, timely delivery and safety of our products and services We believe our track record and reputation are key factors in our clients’ evaluation of whether to engage our services and purchase our products, encouraging key industry players to partner with us, and recruiting and retaining talented personnel to our company. Our reputation is based, to a large extent, on the quality, reliability, timeliness and safety of our products and services. If our products do not meet expected standards or we fail to meet our deadlines, our relationship with our clients and partners could suffer, the reputation of our company could be adversely affected, we may not be invited to new bidding processes and our ability to capture new business could be severely diminished. 18 Table of Contents The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes We may be subject to a variety of legal or administrative proceedings, liability claims or contract disputes. The government, clients and other third parties may present claims against us for injury or damage caused, directly or indirectly, by our operations, for example for alleged failures in our engineering and construction, the operation of our infrastructure concessions (such as our toll roads or the Lima Metro), and real estate developments we sell. Although we have adopted a range of insurance, risk management and risk avoidance programs designed to reduce potential liabilities, a catastrophic event resulting from the services we have performed or products we have provided could result in significant professional or product liability, warranty or other claims against us as well as reputational harm, especially if public safety is impacted. We may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where our clients or third parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. Any liability not covered by our insurance, or in excess of our insurance limits, could result in a significant loss for us, which may affect our financial performance. We are susceptible to operational risks that could affect our business and financial performance Our business is subject to numerous industry-specific operational risks, including natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, operator error or other accidents, mechanical and technical failures, explosions and other events, many of which are beyond our control. Such occurrences could result in injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, business interruption, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory requirements, investigations and penalties, and potential liability claims and contractual disputes. In addition, such occurrences could materially impact our reputation. Although we maintain comprehensive insurance covering our assets and operations at levels that our management believes to be adequate, our insurance coverage will not be sufficient in all circumstances or to protect against all hazards. The occurrence of such an operational risk could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Deterioration in our safety record could adversely affect our business and financial performance Our ability to retain existing clients and attract new business is dependent on our ability to safely operate our business. Existing and potential clients consider the safety record of their services providers to be of high importance in their decision to award service contracts. Some of our activities, in particular in our E&C segment, as well as our electricity networks services line of business, can be high risk by their nature. If one or more accidents were to occur at a site, the affected client may terminate or cancel our contract and may be less likely to continue to use our services. We cannot assure you that we will not experience accidents in the future, causing our safety record to deteriorate. Accidents may be more likely as we continue to grow, particularly if we are required to hire less experienced employees due to shortages of skilled labor. Moreover, often times we do not perform these activities by ourselves and accidents can happen due to errors committed by partners and subcontractors over whom we have no control. Because many of our clients require us to report our safety metrics to them as part of the bidding process and because a substantial part of our client base is comprised of major companies with high safety standards, a general deterioration in our safety record could have a material adverse impact on our business including our ability to bid for new contracts. Any safety incidents or deterioration in our safety record could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. In addition, we could also be subject to liability for damages as a result of accidents and could incur penalties or fines for violations of applicable safety laws and regulations. Increases in the prices of energy, raw materials, equipment or wages could increase our operating costs Our business requires significant purchases of energy, raw materials and components, including, among others, large quantities of fuel, cement and steel, as well as purchases or leases of equipment. Certain of these inputs used in our operations are susceptible to significant fluctuations in prices, over which we may have little control. The prices of some of these inputs are affected to a significant extent by the prices of commodities, such as oil and iron. Substantial increases in the prices of such commodities generally result in increases in our suppliers’ operating costs and, consequently, lead to increases in the prices they charge for their products. Moreover, we do not have long-term contracts for the supply of our key inputs, and, as result, if prices increase significantly or if we are required to find alternative suppliers, our costs to procure these inputs may increase significantly. In addition, 19 Table of Contents growing demand for labor, especially when coupled with shortages of qualified employees in the countries where we operate, may result in significant wage inflation. To the extent that we are unable to pass along to our clients increases in the prices of our key inputs or increases in the wages that we must pay, our operating margins could be materially adversely impacted. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms Our ability to undertake large investments (particularly in our Infrastructure and Real Estate segments) or consummate significant acquisitions will depend on the availability of equity and debt financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new financings in the future on favorable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain financings will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. In 2008 and 2009, global markets suffered turmoil, which significantly constrained the availability of new financings. In addition, our ability to obtain new financing, or refinance existing debt, may at certain times be adversely affected by the cyclicality of our business, particularly our E&C segment, as has occurred in the past. Furthermore, in response to the ensuing global economic recession in 2009, many countries, in particular the United States as well as the countries where we operate, have maintained target interest rates at very low levels, and we cannot assure you that these interest rates will not rise significantly in the future, which would impact our costs of funding. The U.S. Federal Reserve has made statements that it intends to commence increasing target interest rates in 2015, which, if implemented, could lead to higher interest rates globally, including in Peru. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on favorable terms, we may not be able to make future investments or take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. We may not be able to recover on claims against clients for payment If a client fails to pay our invoices on time or defaults in making its payments to us, we could incur significant losses. We occasionally bring claims against clients, principally the government, for delayed payments, additional costs that exceed the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price, including change orders. These types of claims can occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, and, occasionally, they can be the subject of lengthy proceedings. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. Moreover, we have recently encountered difficulties collecting on claims even once we have won awards in arbitration proceedings, particularly claims against the government. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims and change orders could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. If we are unable to enter into joint operations or other strategic alliances, our ability to compete for new business may be adversely affected We may join with other companies to form joint operations or other strategic alliances to compete for a specific concession or contract, including with partners that contribute expertise in a specific field. Because a joint operation or alliance can often offer stronger combined qualifications than a company on a stand-alone basis, these arrangements can be important to the success of a particular bid. If we are unable to enter into joint operations or other strategic alliances, our ability to compete for new business may be adversely affected. Our joint operations and other strategic alliances may be affected by disputes with, or the unsatisfactory performance by, our partners Joint operations and other strategic alliances that we enter into as part of our business, including arrangements where operating control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties, may involve risks not otherwise present when we operate independently, including: sharing approval rights over major decisions; responsibility for our partners’ unpaid obligations or liabilities; and inconsistencies in our and our partners’ economic or business interests or goals. Any disputes between us and our partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. We may also incur liabilities as a result of action taken by our partners. In addition, if we participate in joint operations or other strategic alliances where we are not the controlling party, we may have limited control over operation decisions and actions and the success of the joint operation or other strategic alliance will depend largely on the performance of our partners. These risks could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the 20 Table of Contents subject of such joint operation or other strategic alliance, and could result in the termination of the applicable concession or contract. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure adequate performance and delivery. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, increased liabilities or significant losses for us. In addition, failure by a partner to comply with applicable laws or regulations could negatively impact our business and, in the case of government contracts, could result in fines, suspension or even debarment from participating in bidding processes. As a result, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by disputes involving our joint operation or other strategic alliances. We are dependent upon third parties to complete many of our contractual obligations We rely on third-party suppliers to provide much of the materials and equipment used in our businesses. A portion of the work performed under our infrastructure concessions and, to a lesser extent, other contracts is performed by third-party subcontractors. As a result, the timely completion and quality of our projects may depend on factors beyond our control, including the quality and timeliness of the delivery of materials supplied for use in the project and the technical skills of subcontractors hired for the project. If we are unable to find qualified suppliers or hire qualified subcontractors, our ability to meet our contractual obligations could be impaired. In addition, if the amount we are required to pay for supplies, equipment or subcontractors exceeds what we have estimated, we may suffer losses under our contract. If a supplier or a subcontractor fails to provide supplies, equipment or services as required under a negotiated arrangement for any reason, or provides supplies, equipment or services that are not of an acceptable quality, we may be required to source those supplies, equipment or services on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact our financial performance. In addition, faulty materials or equipment could result in claims against us for failure to meet contractual specifications, and failure by suppliers or subcontractors to comply with applicable laws and regulations could negatively impact our reputation and our business and, in the case of government contracts, could result in fines, suspension or even debarment from participating in bidding processes. These risks may be intensified during economic downturns if these suppliers or subcontractors experience financial difficulties. As a result, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by our dependence on third party providers. Debarment from participating in government bidding processes would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance We would face debarment from participating in government bidding processes for one to three years if we were found to have violated certain provisions of the Peruvian State Contracting Law (Ley de Contrataciones del Estado). We are required to comply with a large number of contractual obligations with the government in our business, and we cannot assure you that we will be in full compliance at all times. Moreover, such a debarment would affect the ability of our entire company (including any of our subsidiaries), and not just the line of business where the alleged violation took place, to participate in government bids under the Peruvian State Contracting Law. In December 2011, SUNAT (Superintendencia Nacional de Aduanas y Administración Tributaria), the Peruvian tax and customs authority, provided us with notice that they had terminated one of GMD’s contracts in our Technical Services segment, which resulted in the elimination of approximately US$4.2 million from our backlog as of such date, alleging a number of service deficiencies. In response to SUNAT’s contract termination, we initiated an arbitration against SUNAT and SUNAT counterclaimed for the payment of performance bonds in an aggregate amount of S/.1.6 million. A negative outcome in this arbitration, if we do not resolve the dispute with SUNAT, would also affect our company’s, including any of our subsidiaries’, participation in government bidding processes under the Peruvian State Contracting Law. Additionally, in April 2013, Perupetro initiated an administrative proceeding against a subsidiary in our E&C segment, claiming that the subsidiary had submitted a bid to provide engineering services while not being in compliance with certain technical requirements. We lost the administrative proceeding at the end of 2013 and we immediately commenced judicial action to contest this decision. Although we believe that the likelihood of an adverse outcome in this proceeding is remote, an adverse outcome would affect our company’s, including any of our subsidiaries’, participation in government bidding processes under the Peruvian State Contracting Law. Furthermore, in March 2014, the regional government of Cusco provided us with a notice that they had terminated one of Concar’s toll road operation and maintenance contracts, representing a backlog loss of US$48.4 million. We believe this termination is invalid, since we had previously terminated the contract due to a lack of payment and failure to provide access to the related road. All of these procedures remain pending as of the date of this annual report. A significant part of our revenues on a consolidated basis is derived from public sector contracts in Peru. As a result, if our company is debarred from participating in government bidding processes, our business and financial performance would be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance We operate in highly regulated industries. Our business and financial performance depends on our and our clients’ ability to comply on a timely and efficient basis with extensive national, regional and municipal laws and regulations relating to, among other matters, environmental, health and safety, building and zoning, labor, tax and other matters. The cost of complying with these laws and regulations can be substantial. In addition, compliance with these laws and regulations can cause scheduling delays. Although we believe we are in compliance with all applicable concessions, other similar contracts, laws and regulations in all material respects, we cannot assure you we have been or will be at all times in full compliance. Failure by us or our clients to comply with our concessions, similar contracts or these laws and regulations could result in a range of adverse consequences for our business, including subjecting us to significant fines, civil liabilities and criminal sanctions, requiring us to comply with costly restorative orders, the shutdown of operations, and revocation of permits and termination of concessions or similar contracts. In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes to existing laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, will not impair our ability to comply with such laws and regulations or increase our compliance costs. Moreover, on July 11, 2014, the Peruvian government enacted a new State Contracting Law, which is not in effect yet and for which implementing regulation has not been published. We do not believe that this new law will have a material effect on our business, but we cannot assure you that it will not. Accordingly, existing or future regulation in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may be held liable for environmental damage caused by our operations The nature of certain of our operations requires us to assume risks of causing environmental and other damages. We may be held liable for the environmental damage we cause, including the incidental consequences of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. We may be subject to clean up costs or penalties in the event of certain discharges into the environment and/or environmental contamination and damage. Our environmental liability insurance may not be sufficient or may not apply to certain types of environmental damage. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. New environmental regulation as a result of climate change could impact our business and financial performance Growing concerns about climate change could result in the imposition of additional or more stringent environmental requirements or regulations. For example, there are ongoing international efforts to address greenhouse emissions, such as the Kyoto Protocol, which are in various stages of negotiation and implementation. If more stringent environmental regulation is adopted in the countries where we operate, we may be obliged to incur higher expenditures than anticipated, adversely affecting our financial performance. In addition, future remediation requirements in the event that we are found responsible for environmental damage may be substantial, which could impact our financial condition. Moreover, more stringent environmental regulation could increase the costs of projects for our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the demand for our services. Accordingly, new environmental regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may not be able to effectively protect against financial market risks Our operations are exposed to financial market risks, such as risks related to exchange rates, commodity prices and, to a lesser extent, interest rates. Fluctuations in currency, commodity prices or interest rates could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot assure you that derivative financial instruments will protect us from the adverse effects of financial market risks. While hedging transactions are intended to reduce market risks, such transactions may expose us to other risks, such as counterparty risk. We may not be able to adequately protect ourselves against financial market risks and may not ultimately realize an economic benefit from our hedging strategy. 22 Table of Contents The loss of a key client in some of our lines of business may affect our business and financial performance In some of our lines of business, such as our Infrastructure and Technical Services segments, a substantial amount of the revenue we receive is concentrated among a limited number of clients, including the Peruvian government. If one or more of these major clients fail or delay in paying our fees, or if there is a significant reduction or cancellation of business by one or more of these major clients, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. In particular we cannot assure you that Enersis, from whom we acquired our electricity networks services line of business in 2011, will not reduce its use of our services. If we are not able to capture new clients to replace the loss of business from existing key clients, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for our Engineering and Construction segment could result in a reduction of previously recorded profits In accordance with IFRS, we measure and recognize a large portion of our revenues under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenues ratably over the life of a contract, without regard to the timing of receipt of cash payments, by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to estimated costs, and thus revenues, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. These revisions can occur at any time and could be material. On a historical basis, we believe that we have made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion on our long-term contracts. However, given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts and inherent in the nature of some of the industries in which we operate, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded profits. Labor unrest could adversely affect our financial performance All of our manual laborers and a portion of our employees are members of labor unions. Our practice is generally to extend benefits we offer our unionized employees to non-unionized employees. In our E&C segment, collective bargaining agreements are negotiated at two levels, on an annual basis between the Peruvian National Federation of Civil Construction and the Peruvian Chamber of Construction, without our direct involvement, and on a per project basis directly between the unions and us in accordance with such annual agreement. We also have collective agreements with our employees in certain of our business segments, which are also negotiated periodically. Although we consider that our relationship with unions are currently positive, we cannot assure you that we will not experience work slowdowns, work stoppages, strikes or other labor disputes in the future, which could result in the interruption or delay of our operations. Such interruptions or delays could have an adverse impact on our business, including on the cost of our projects and our ability to make timely delivery. Moreover, our operations may also be affected by labor unrest in our clients’ or our partners’ workforce. The proceeds from our insurance policies may not be sufficient and we may not be insured against all risks We maintain insurance coverage both as a corporate risk management strategy and in order to satisfy the requirements under certain regulations and contracts. We cannot assure you that proceeds from our insurance policies, however, will be sufficient to cover the damages resulting from any event covered by such policies. Certain risks are not covered under the terms of our insurance policies, such as interruption of operations. In such event, we may incur significant expenses to rebuild our facilities, repair or replace our equipment, or cover other damages. In addition, if any of our third party insurers fail, abruptly cancel our coverage or otherwise cannot satisfy their insurance requirements to us, then our overall risk exposure and operational expenses could be increased. Moreover, we may not be able to renew our insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. Although we have in the past been generally able to cover our insurance needs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure all necessary insurance in the future. 23 Table of Contents An increase in import duties and controls may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance Our future success depends in part on our ability to select and purchase quality mechanical instruments and equipment at attractive prices. While we have historically been able to do so, such instruments and equipment may become subject to higher import taxes than currently apply. We cannot assure you that there will not be further increases in import taxes, changes in laws related to imports or the imposition of quotas by countries from which we import mechanical instruments and equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The government may declare the nullity of public bidding processes after we have been awarded a project or concession. Even if we win the public biding for a project or concession, the government may subsequently declare the process void for political, budgetary or other reasons and may withdraw the project or concession awarded to us. For example, in June 2014, we were determined the winner of a public bidding for a concession to operate the fare collection system of Lima’s integrated transportation system for a period of sixteen years. However, in January 2015, the Municipality of Lima notified us that the board of directors of the Instituto Metropolitano Protransporte de Lima – Protransporte had declared the nullity of the public biding process, based on a report issued by the Peruvian Ministry of Economy and Finance, which concluded that the Ministry should have pronounced itself with respect to the concession prior to the bidding process instead of afterwards. The declaration of nullity of projects or concessions awarded to us could affect our future results of operations. Moreover, the uncertainty that results from these type of decisions may adversely impact investor confidence in Peru and our business. Additional Risks Related to our Engineering and Construction Business We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the end-markets we serve Demand for our engineering and construction services is dependent on conditions in the end-markets we serve, which include, among others, the mining, power, oil and gas, transportation, real estate and other infrastructure sectors in Peru, as well as the mining sector in Chile and the energy sector in Colombia. Consequently, our engineering and construction business is closely linked to the performance and growth of these sectors, and it is exposed to many of the risks faced by our clients operating in these sectors, over which we have no control. These industries tend to be cyclical in nature and, as a result, although downturns can impact our entire company, our engineering and construction business has historically been subject to periods of very high and low demand. For example, between 2000 and 2003, there was a significant decline in activity in the Peruvian real estate and construction sectors, which consequently affected our and our competitors’ business and financial performance during that time. Factors that can affect these sectors include, among others, macroeconomic conditions, climate conditions, the level of private and public investment, the availability of credit, changes in laws and regulations, and political and social stability. The mining and oil and gas sectors, in particular, are also driven by worldwide demand for the underlying commodities, including, among others, silver, gold, copper, oil and gas, which can be affected by such other factors as global economic conditions and geopolitical affairs. A decline in prices for minerals or oil and gas (including the recent steep decline in global oil and gas prices) can have a significant impact on our clients’ exploration and production activities and, as a result, on their demand for our engineering and construction services. Accordingly, adverse developments in the end-markets served by our engineering and construction business could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Decreases in capital investments by our clients may adversely affect the demand for our services Our engineering and construction business is directly affected by changes in private-sector and, to a lesser extent, public-sector investments for large-scale infrastructure projects. In addition, our engineering and construction business is directly affected by the availability and cost of financings for these projects. In the markets where we operate, investments and financings for large-scale projects have historically been influenced by macroeconomic and other factors which are beyond our control, including in the case of public-sector investment, government spending levels. As a result, we cannot assure you that clients will not choose to limit or not undertake new projects or delay, suspend or cancel existing projects. Reductions in anticipated capital investments or available financing for large-scale projects could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 24 Table of Contents Our revenues may fluctuate based on project cycles, which we may not control The substantial majority of the revenues from our engineering and construction business is generated from project awards, the timing of which may be unpredictable and outside of our control, especially considering the highly competitive bidding processes and complex and lengthy negotiations they involve. These processes can be impacted by a wide variety of outside factors including governmental approvals, financing contingencies and overall market and economic conditions. Moreover, because a significant portion of our revenues is generated from large-scale projects, our results of operations can fluctuate quarterly or yearly depending on whether and when project awards occur and the commencement and progress of work under awarded contracts. As a result, we are subject to the risk that revenues may not be derived from awarded projects as quickly as anticipated. Our business may be adversely affected if we incorrectly estimate the costs of our projects We conduct our engineering and construction business under various types of contractual arrangements where costs are estimated in advance. In some of our contracts (i.e., lump-sum, unit price and EPC) we bear the risk of some or all unanticipated cost overruns, including due to inflation or certain unforeseen events. Risks under contracts which could result in cost overruns include: difficulties in performance of our subcontractors, suppliers, or other third parties; changes in laws and regulations or difficulties in obtaining permits or other approvals; unanticipated technical problems; unforeseen increases in the cost of inputs, components, equipment, labor, or the inability to obtain these on a timely basis; delays caused by weather conditions; incorrect assumptions related to productivity or scheduling estimates; and project modifications that create unanticipated costs or delays. These risks tend to be exacerbated for longer term contracts since there is increased risk that the circumstances under which we based our original bid could change. In many of our contracts, we may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work performed or expenses incurred. Our failure to estimate accurately the resources and time required to complete a project could adversely affect our profitability. Even under our cost-plus contracts, our inability to complete projects within the estimated budget could affect our relationship with our clients and negatively impact awards of future contracts. As a result, if we incorrectly estimate the costs of our projects, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. We may be unable to deliver our services in a timely manner The success of our engineering and construction business depends on our ability to meet the standards and schedules required by our clients. Significant delays that prevent us from providing our services on agreed time frames could adversely affect our client relations and reputation. Delays may occur for a number of reasons, including as a result of our inability to adequately foresee the needs of our clients; delays caused by our joint operation partners, subcontractors or suppliers; insufficient production capacity; equipment failure; shortage of qualified workers; changes to customs regulations; and natural disasters. Failure to finish construction by the contractual completion date set forth in the contract could result in costs that reduce our projected profit margins, including a requirement to pay daily penalties and damages. If we are unable to meet deadlines, either due to internal problems or as a result of events over which we have no control, we may lose the trust of our clients and, therefore, experience a decrease in the demand for our services. In such event, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work or expenses incurred as a result of client-requested change orders Clients often determine, after commencement of the project, to change various elements of the project. Some of our contracts may also require that clients provide us with design or engineering information or with equipment or materials to be used on the project, and, in some cases, the client may provide us with deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials or may provide the information or equipment or materials to us later than required by the project schedule. Our project contracts generally require the client to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred due to client requested change orders or failure of the client to provide us with specified design or engineering information or equipment or materials. Under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the client with respect to the amount of additional time required to make these changes and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we are unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred 25 Table of Contents by us due to client-requested change orders or failure by the client to timely provide required items. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record an adjustment to amounts of revenue and gross profit that were recognized in prior periods. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may have difficulty obtaining performance bonds that we require in the normal course of our operations In our engineering and construction business, it is industry practice for customers to require performance bonds or other forms of credit enhancement to secure, among other things, bids, advance payments and performance. We cannot assure you that in the future we will not encounter difficulties in obtaining such performance bonds or credit enhancements. The Peruvian market for these types of credit instruments is small; moreover, under Peruvian banking regulations, lenders are required to impose limits on the amount of credit they extend to a group of affiliated companies. Failure to provide performance bonds or credit enhancements on terms required by clients may result in our inability to compete for or win new projects. Additional Risks Related to our Infrastructure Business A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may adversely affect our financial performance A substantial part of the revenues of our infrastructure business depends upon prevailing prices for oil. Historically, oil prices and markets have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Moreover, global oil prices have declined significantly in recent months, with the average Brent crude prices declining from US$111.65 in 2012, US$108.64 in 2013 and US$99.02 in 2014 to US$55.79 per barrel in March 2015. Oil is a commodity and its price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand for oil, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. Those factors include, among others: global demand and supply; political developments in producing regions; weather conditions; governmental regulations; international conflicts and acts of terrorism; the price and availability of alternative sources of energy; and overall local and global economic conditions. Moreover, lower oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also reduce the amount of oil we can produce economically, if any, and, as such, may have a negative impact on the reserves of the fields in which we operate. As result, our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected by declines in oil prices. Our reserves estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and are not subject to review by independent reserve auditors The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, although the fields where we produce oil and gas are mature (Block I has been in production for over 100 years and Block V for over 50 years). In order to prepare our reserves estimates for Blocks I and V presented in this annual report, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures as well as analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of reserves are inherently imprecise. Moreover, our reserve estimates for Blocks I and V included in this annual report have been prepared internally by our team of engineers, and have not been audited or reviewed by independent engineers. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves will most likely vary from the estimates presented in this annual report, and those variances may be material. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated reserves of the fields in which we operate. On December 12, 2014, we were awarded license contracts for a 30-year term for Blocks III and IV and we began operations on April 5, 2015. Considering the recent initiation of operations, we have not yet prepared our own reserve estimates for these blocks. As a result, we have not included in this annual report reserve estimates for Blocks III and IV; instead, we have included production levels of prior contractors for 2012-2014 in Blocks III and IV based on information published by Perupetro. We cannot assure you what the reserves estimates for Blocks III and IV will be once we complete our evaluation. 26 Table of Contents Our return on our investment in our concessions may not meet estimated returns Our return on any investment in a concession is based on the terms and conditions of the concession, its duration and the amount of capital invested as well as the amount of revenues collected, debt service costs, payment of penalties and other factors. For example, traffic volume at toll roads may be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including security conditions; general economic conditions; demographic changes; fuel prices; reduction in commercial or industrial activities in the regions served by the roads; and natural disasters. Decreased traffic at Norvial could adversely affect our financial performance. Although some of our concessions allow for adjustments based on economic conditions, certain concessions provide that adjustment requests be approved only if certain limited events specified in our concession contracts have occurred. If a request of adjustment is not granted, our financial performance could be affected. Given these factors and the possibility that governmental authorities could implement policies that affect our contractual return on investment in a way that we did not anticipate, we cannot assure you that our return on any investment under any concession will meet our estimates. Governmental entities may terminate prematurely our concessions and similar contracts under various circumstances, some of which are beyond our control Our ability to continue operating our concessions and similar public-sector contracts depends on governmental authorities, which may revoke the agreement for certain reasons set forth in the relevant documentation contract and in applicable legislation, including the failure to comply with any contractual terms (including the concessionaire’s default on debt) or applicable law. Moreover, the relevant governmental authority may terminate and/or repossess a concession at any time, if, in accordance with applicable law, it determines that it is in the public interest to do so. The relevant governmental authority may also assume the operation of a concession in certain emergency situations, such as war, public disturbance or threat to national security. In addition, in the case of force majeure , the relevant governmental authority may require us to implement certain changes to our operations. If the government terminates any of our concessions, under Peruvian law it is generally required to compensate us for the amount of our unrecovered investment, unless the concession is revoked pursuant to applicable law or the terms of the concession which would imply a serious breach of the concession’s terms by us. Such compensation process is likely to be time consuming and the amount paid to us may not fully compensate us. We cannot assure you that we would receive such compensation on a timely basis or in an amount equivalent to the value of our investment in a concession plus lost profits. We are exposed to risks related to the operation and maintenance of our concessions and similar contracts The operation and maintenance requirements under our concessions could encounter delays or cause us to exceed our budgeted costs for such projects, which could limit our ability to realize the expected return on these projects, increase our operating or capital expenses and adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, our operations may be adversely affected by interruptions or failures in the technology and infrastructure systems that we use to support our operations, including toll road collection and traffic measurement systems. The Lima Metro in particular may be susceptible to outages due to power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. The failure of any of our technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, adversely affecting our profitability. While we have business continuity plans in place to reduce the adverse impact of information technology system failures on our operations, we cannot assure you that these plans will be effective. Furthermore, accidents and natural disasters may also disrupt the construction, operation or maintenance of our projects and concessions, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may not be successful in obtaining new concessions The market for infrastructure concessions in Peru is competitive. We compete with Peruvian and foreign companies for infrastructure concessions in Peru, some of whom may have greater financial and other resources or particular expertise pertinent to a specific concession. Moreover, our public-sector clients may face budget deficits that may prohibit the development of infrastructure concessions, which could affect our business. We may also not be able to obtain additional concessions if the government decides not to award new concessions, due to budget constraints or policy changes or because alternative financing mechanisms are used. Our inability to bid for or obtain new concessions may adversely affect our business and financial performance. 27 Table of Contents Our contract with Petroperú S.A. (“Petroperú”) for fuel storage at the South terminal is currently scheduled to expire in August 2015, with a new public biding expected to take place in May. Moreover, we cannot assure you whether or when we will undertake any of the projects that have been awarded to us but for which contract negotiations are ongoing, in particular the concession for the Via Expresa Javier Prado. A contract for the Via Expresa Javier Prado was approved by the City of Lima´s Council in November 2013 and was submitted to the Peruvian Ministry of Economy and Finance, which requested additional studies related to traffic volumes prior to approving the project. Such studies are currently being prepared. We cannot assure you that the Ministry will approve the contract under the current terms or at all. We may not be able to negotiate contracts terms that are favorable to us or at all. In addition, these projects may suffer long delays or suspension as a result of political considerations or other factors. Additional Risks Related to our Real Estate Business We are exposed to risks associated with the development of real estate Our real estate business is subject to the risks that generally affect the real estate industry, such as availability and prices of suitable land, environmental and zoning regulations, interruptions in supply and volatility of the prices of construction materials and equipment, and changes in the demand for real estate. Our real estate business is specifically affected by the following risks: macroeconomic conditions in Peru that may impact the growth of the real estate sector as a whole, particularly in the residential market, including an increase in unemployment or a decrease in wage levels; an increase in prevailing interest rates or lack of available credit; changes in government subsidies for affordable housing; unfavorable real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply of residential units or scarcity of suitable land in particular areas; the level of customer interest in our new projects or the sales price per unit necessary to sell the unit may be lower than expected; customer perception of the security, convenience and attractiveness of our projects and the areas in which they are located; cost overruns, many of which may be beyond our control, that exceed our estimates and affect our profit margins, including the price of labor, land, insurance, taxes and public charges; the construction and sale of units may not be completed on schedule; bankruptcy or significant financial difficulties of large industry players, which cause a loss of confidence in the industry; and restrictions on real estate development imposed by local, regional and national laws and regulations. The occurrence of any of the above events may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Real estate prices may not continue to rise and may decline Real estate prices in Peru have risen significantly over the last decade. We cannot assure you that this increase in real estate prices does not represent a bubble. Real estate prices in Peru may not continue to rise or may decline significantly, particularly if financing costs rise or consumer confidence in the real estate market erodes. If real estate prices decline significantly, our business and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary licenses and/or authorizations for our developments in due time Real estate development requires obtaining certain licenses, authorizations and registrations. In Peru, local authorities are responsible for issuing most of the licenses that are required during the development stage, including zoning, demolition and construction licenses, among others. Currently, we have approximately 19 real estate projects in various stages of development. We have not yet initiated the administrative processes before the appropriate authorities, or such procedures are pending approval, for two of these developments, including our Project Espacio (formerly Cuartel San Martín), a multi-use development project, as they are still in the early stages of development. A denial or an extended delay by applicable administrative authorities may render land unsuitable for development or delay the completion of planned projects, increase our costs and adversely affect our business and financial performance. 28 Table of Contents Scarcity of financing and/or an increase in interest rates could decrease the demand for real estate properties The scarcity of financing and/or an increase in interest rates may adversely affect the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to purchase our real estate properties. In most cases, the purchasers of our residential or commercial properties finance at least part of the purchase price with mortgage loans. In 2014, 67.8% of our residential units was sold to purchasers who received government subsidies to finance the purchase homes. An increase in interest rates, whether as a result of market conditions or government action or otherwise, may cause a decrease in the demand for our residential and commercial properties and for land development, as well as an increase of our own financing costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may experience difficulties in finding desirable land and increases in the price of land may increase our cost of sales and decrease our earnings The continued growth of our real estate business depends in large part on our ability to continue to acquire land and to do so at a reasonable cost. As more developers enter or expand their operations in the Peruvian real estate sector, land prices could rise significantly and suitable land could become scarce due to increased demand or decreased supply. A resulting rise in land prices may increase our cost of sales and decrease our earnings. We may not be able to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices in the future, which may have a negative impact on our financial performance. Changing market conditions may adversely affect our ability to sell home inventories in our land and at expected prices There is a lag between the time we acquire land and the time that we can bring the developed properties to market. Lag time varies on a project-by-project basis. As a result, we face the risk that demand for real estate may decline or that other developments may occur during this period that affect market conditions, and that we will not be able to dispose of developed properties or undeveloped land at expected prices or profit margins or within anticipated time frames or at all. Significant expenditures associated with investments in real estate, such as maintenance costs, construction costs and debt payments, cannot generally be reduced if changes in market conditions cause a decrease in expected revenues from our properties. Moreover, the market value of home inventories and undeveloped land can fluctuate significantly because of changing market conditions. As a result of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be forced to sell properties or land at a loss or for prices that generate lower profit margins than we anticipate. Determinations by INDECOPI may adversely affect our ability to enforce binding contracts In resolving consumer protection complaints in the real estate and insurance sectors, INDECOPI has made determinations against real estate developers that in effect altered their contractual arrangements with purchasers, including one determination against Viva GyM which we are currently challenging in the judicial system. Moreover, some purchasers of our real estate have recently filed complaints against us before INDECOPI and/or made claims in the media with the objective of obtaining not only compensation for alleged deficiencies in housing construction but also improved terms from those that they originally agreed to, which may have a negative impact on our real estate business. An increase in consumer complaints and consumer protective measures, particularly those that alter contractual terms, if we are not able to counter these claims, may affect our ability to enforce our contracts under existing terms, which may have a negative impact on our real estate business. Additional Risks Related to our Technical Services Business Our engagements with clients may not be profitable or may be terminated or not renewed The pricing and other terms of many of our client contracts in our technical services business necessarily require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services. Because of the competitive nature of the markets in which we operate, particularly in IT services, the risks related to errors in these estimates are heightened. Any increased or unexpected costs of 29 Table of Contents unanticipated delays or complications in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or not profitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of services provided under a contract. In addition, the success of our technical services business is dependent on our ability to retain our clients. In our electricity networks services line of business in particular, Enersis, from whom we acquired control of the business in 2011 remains a key client; however, we cannot assure you that they will continue to use our services in the future. Also, in our IT services business in particular, we may lose clients due to their conversion to in-house service providers. We are also vulnerable to reduced volumes from our clients due to business downturns or for other reasons, which can reduce the scope and price of services we provide. A contract termination by a major client could cause us to experience a higher than expected number of unassigned employees, which would affect our profitability until we are able to reduce or reallocate our personnel. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, and the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our agreements, or of our most important contracts, may adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, non-compliance on a contract with a public-sector client may lead to debarment from participating in government bidding processes and, consequently, inability to contract with other public-sector clients, not just for the line of business where the alleged violation took place, but also for all of our other businesses. We may not be successful in obtaining new government contracts We compete to provide services to the Peruvian government, and some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources or particular expertise pertinent to a specific contract. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional government service contracts if the government decides not to award additional public-sector road contracts or, to a lesser extent, contracts for the provision of IT and electrical networks services, due to budget constraints, policy changes or otherwise. Our inability to obtain new government contracts may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We face risks related to the delivery of products and services by our suppliers In the course of our IT services and electricity networks services, we depend on technology providers that may commit errors or omissions related to the delivery or the quality of equipment, services or products that are essential to our business. A significant error or failure to deliver such equipment, products or services made by one of our suppliers, particularly in our IT services business where we may have an exclusive arrangement with a specific supplier for a client, may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our IT security measures may be breached or compromised and we may sustain system outages We rely on encryption, authentication technology and firewalls to provide security for confidential information, including personal data, transmitted to and by us over the internet. A breach of our network security measures could result in the misappropriation of proprietary or personal information or cause interruptions in our IT services or operations, could damage our reputation and harm our ability to deliver services to our clients. This may result in client dissatisfaction and a loss of business. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and we may be required to expand significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and to alleviate problems caused by breaches as well as by any unplanned unavailability of our IT systems caused by other reasons, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others Our IT services, or third-party products we offer our clients, may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us. These claims may harm our reputation, increase our costs and prevent us from offering certain services or products. Any claims or litigation relating to intellectual property, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or product could result in our loss of revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Peru Economic, social and political developments in Peru could adversely affect our business and financial performance The substantial majority of our operations are conducted in Peru and depend on economic and political developments in the country. As a result, our business may be materially and adversely affected by economic downturns, currency depreciation, inflation, interest rate fluctuation, government policies, regulation, taxation, social instability, political unrest, terrorism and other developments in or affecting the country, over which we have no control. In the past, Peru has experienced periods of severe economic recession, large currency devaluation and high inflation. We cannot assure you that Peru will not experience similar adverse economic developments in the future. In addition, Peru has experienced periods of political instability that has included a succession of regimes with differing economic policies and programs. Previous governments have imposed controls on prices, exchange rates, local and foreign investments and international trade, restricted the ability of companies to dismiss employees, expropriated private-sector assets and prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign investors. We cannot assure you that the Peruvian government will continue to pursue business-friendly and open-market policies that stimulate economic growth and social stability. Fluctuations in the value of the nuevo sol could adversely affect financial performance Fluctuations in the value of the nuevo sol relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect Peru’s economy. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the nuevo sol to the U.S. dollar can materially adversely affect our results of operations. In 2014, 37.2% and 55.7% of our revenues were denominated in nuevos soles and U.S. dollars, respectively, whereas 70.1% and 23.1% of our costs of sales were denominated in nuevos soles and U.S. dollars, respectively. In the past the exchange rate between the nuevo sol and the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly. We cannot assure you that the value of nuevo sol against other currencies will not fluctuate significantly in the future, which could adversely affect the Peruvian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although Peruvian law currently imposes no restrictions on the ability to convert nuevos soles to foreign currency and transfer foreign currency outside of the country, in the 1980s and early 1990s, Peru imposed exchange controls, including controls affecting the remittance of dividends to foreign investors. We cannot assure you that exchange controls in Peru will not be implemented in the future. The imposition of exchange controls could have an adverse effect on the economy and on your ability to receive dividends from us as a holder of ADSs. Inflation could adversely affect our financial performance In the past, Peru has suffered through periods of hyperinflation, which have materially undermined the Peruvian economy and the government’s ability to create conditions that support economic growth. A return to a high inflation environment would also undermine Peru’s foreign competitiveness, with negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment. As a result of reforms initiated in the 1990s, Peruvian inflation decreased significantly from four-digit inflation during the 1980s. The Peruvian economy experienced annual inflation of 2.1% in 2010, 4.7% in 2011, 2.6% in 2012, 2.9% in 2013 and 3.2% in 2014, as measured by the Peruvian Consumer Price Index (Índice de Precios al Consumidor del Perú). If Peru experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs of sales and administrative expenses could increase which could affect our operating margins. Inflationary pressures may lead to governmental intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Peruvian economy. For example, in response to increased inflation, the Peruvian Central Bank, which sets the Peruvian basic interest rate, may increase or decrease the basic interest rate in an attempt to control inflation or foster economic growth. 31 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, negatively affect our financial performance The Peruvian congress and government regularly implement changes to tax laws that may increase our tax burden. These changes may include modifications in our tax rates and, on occasions, the enactment of temporary taxes that in some cases have become permanent taxes. Tax reforms related to the Peruvian income tax, value added tax and tax code have recently been approved, but we are unable to estimate the impacts that these reforms may have on business. The effects of any tax reforms that could be proposed in the future and any other changes that result from the enactment of additional reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. However, any changes to our tax regime may result in increases in our overall costs and/or our overall compliance costs, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Earthquakes, severe weather and other natural disasters could adversely affect our business and financial performance Peru is located in an area that experiences seismic activity and occasionally is affected by earthquakes. For example, in 2007, an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.9 on the Richter scale struck the central coast of Peru, severally damaging the region south of Lima. Such conditions may result in physical damage to our properties and equipment, closure of one or more of our project sites and infrastructure concessions, inadequate work forces in our markets and temporary disruptions in the supply of construction materials. In addition, Peru has also experienced adverse climate conditions (due to climate change or otherwise) and adverse weather patterns, such as El Niño, an oceanic and atmospheric phenomenon that causes a warming of temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, resulting in heavy rains off the coast of Peru and potentially flooding. Poor weather conditions can have significant adverse effects on our engineering and construction activities as well as on our operation and maintenance of infrastructure assets business. Any of these factors may materially adversely affect the Peruvian economy and our business and financial performance. A resurgence of terrorism in Peru could adversely affect the Peruvian economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations In the past, Peru experienced severe terrorist activity that reached its peak of violence against the government and private sector in the late 1980s and early 1990s. In the mid-1990s, terrorist groups suffered significant defeats, including the arrest of leaders, resulting in considerable limitations in their activities. Despite the suppression of terrorist activity, we cannot assure you that a resurgence of terrorism in Peru will not occur, or that if there is such a resurgence, it will not disrupt the economy of Peru and our business. The Peruvian economy could be affected by adverse economic developments in regional or global markets Financial and securities markets in Peru are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in regional or global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in one country may adversely affect cash flows and securities from issuers in other countries, including Peru. For example, the Peruvian economy was adversely affected by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including in Mexico in 1994, the Asian crisis in 1997, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998, the Brazilian currency devaluation in 1999 and the Argentine crisis in 2001, which affected the market value of securities issued by companies from markets throughout Latin America. In addition, Peru’s economy continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners and in developed economies that are trading partners or that affect the global economy. The 2008-2009 global economic recession, principally driven by the subprime mortgage market in the United States, substantially affected the international financial system, including Peru’s securities market and economy. Additionally, economic concerns in Europe, slower growth in China and declines in global commodity, in particular oil and gas, prices may reduce the confidence of foreign investors, which may cause volatility in the securities markets and affect the ability of companies to obtain financing globally. The worsening of current global conditions or a new economic or financial crisis could affect Peru’s economy, and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business and financial performance. 32 Table of Contents Risks relating to Chile, Colombia and other Latin American Countries We face risks relating to our operations outside of Peru Latin American economic, political and social conditions may adversely affect our business. Our financial performance may be significantly affected not only by general economic, political and social conditions in Peru but also in other markets where we operate or intend to operate, including Chile and Colombia. These countries have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. We cannot predict whether changes in current administrations will result in changes in governmental policy and whether such changes will affect our business. Instability in the region has been caused by many different factors, including: significant governmental influence over local economies; substantial fluctuations in economic growth; high levels of inflation; changes in currency values; exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; high domestic interest rates; wage and price controls; changes in governmental economic or tax policies, including retroactive changes; imposition of trade barriers, including import duties on information technology equipment; electricity rationing; liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; unexpected changes in regulation; expropriations; and high levels of organized crime, terrorism and social conflicts, as well as overall political, social and economic instability. More recently, tax and other governmental reforms in Chile have led to concerns about potential negative effects on the Chilean economy, and the decline in global oil prices has also led to concerns about potential negative effects on the Colombian economy. Risks Relating to our ADSs The market price of our ADSs may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment Volatility in the market price of our ADSs may prevent you from being able to sell your ADSs at or above the price you paid for them. The market price and liquidity of the market for our ADSs may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, among others: actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations, quarterly fluctuations, or failure to meet expectations of financial market analysts and investors; investor perceptions of our prospects or our industries; operating performance of companies comparable to us and increased competition in our industries; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws and regulations applicable to our business; general economic trends in Peru; catastrophic events, such as earthquakes and other natural disasters; and developments and perceptions of risks in Peru and in other countries. Substantial sales of ADSs or common shares could cause the price of our ADSs or common shares to decrease Significant shareholders hold a large number of our common shares. These securities are eligible for sale. The market price of our ADSs could decline significantly if we or our significant shareholders sell securities in our company or the market perceives that we or our significant shareholders intend to do so. We may raise additional capital in the future through the issuance of equity securities, which may result in dilution of the interests of our shareholders We may need to raise additional capital and may opt for obtaining such capital through the public or private placement of debt securities or securities convertible into our common shares. In the event of a public or private debt financing, or the financing through the issuance of securities convertible into our common shares, such additional funds may be obtained with the exclusion of the preemptive rights of our shareholders, including the investors in our common shares, which may dilute the percentage interests of investors in our common shares. No shareholder or group of shareholders holds a majority of our common shares Our directors and senior management, directly and indirectly, own approximately 32.17% of our common shares as of December 31, 2014, and our Chairman owns, directly and indirectly, 17.81% of our common shares. No shareholder or group of shareholders currently owns a majority of our common shares. In addition, there is no 33 Table of Contents shareholders’ agreement among any of our significant shareholders. Accordingly, no shareholder or group of shareholders may on its own determine the outcome of substantially all matters submitted for a vote to our shareholders. In addition, a new investor or group of investors may in the future seek to acquire a significant stake in, or control of, our company, subject to compliance with Peruvian tender offer requirements which require that a tender offer be made to all shareholders upon, among other matters, acquisition of 25%, 50% and 60% of our voting rights. If a new investor or group of investors acquires a significant stake in, or control of, our company, we cannot assure you that such investor or group of investors will not seek to change how our business is managed. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to our common shares underlying the ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings As a holder of ADSs representing common shares being held by the depositary in your name, you may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. Holders of our common shares will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings through publication of a notice twenty-five days in advance, in accordance with Peruvian law, in the official gazette in Peru, a Peruvian newspaper of general circulation and the website of the Peruvian Securities Commission, and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders will not receive notice directly from us. Instead, pursuant to the deposit agreement, we will notify the depositary, who will mail to holders of ADSs the notice of the meeting and a statement as to the manner in which voting instructions may be given. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must instruct the depositary how to exercise the voting rights for the common shares which underlie their ADSs. Due to these additional procedural steps involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights may take longer for ADS holders than for holders of our common shares. Holders of ADSs also may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the common shares underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADS or for the manner of carrying out such instructions, unless such failure can be attribute to gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the depositary or its agents. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the underlying common shares are not voted as requested. Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited Our shareholders’ ability to receive cash dividends may be limited by the ability of the depositary to convert cash dividends paid in nuevos soles into U.S. dollars. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, the depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the common shares underlying the ADSs into U.S. dollars, if it can do so on a reasonable basis and can transfer the U.S. dollars to the United States. If this conversion is not possible or if any government approval is needed and cannot be obtained, the deposit agreement allows the depositary to distribute the foreign currency only to those ADR holders to whom it is possible to do so. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive or accretion rights with respect to the common shares underlying their ADSs Under Peruvian corporate law, if we issue new common shares as part of a capital increase, unless otherwise agreed to by holders of 40% of our subscribed voting common shares and, provided that such capital increase does not favor, directly or indirectly, certain shareholders to the detriment of others, our shareholders will generally have the right to subscribe to a proportional number of common shares of the class held by them to maintain their existing ownership percentage, which is known as preemptive rights. In addition, shareholders are entitled to the right to subscribe for the unsubscribed common shares at the end of a preemptive rights offering, on a pro rata basis, which is known as accretion rights. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive or accretion rights relating to common shares underlying your ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common shares relating to these preemptive and accretion rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless 34 Table of Contents we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive and accretion rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive and accretion rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. As a result, U.S. holders of our ADSs may suffer dilution of their interest in our company upon future capital increases. We are entitled to amend the deposit agreement and to change the rights of ADS holders under the terms of such agreement, without the prior consent of the ADS holders We are entitled to amend the deposit agreement and to change the rights of the ADS holders under the terms of such agreement, without the prior consent of the ADS holders. Any change related to an increase in deposits or charges for book-entry securities services or any modification that might hinder the rights of the ADS holders will be effective within 30 days after the ADS holders have received notice of such change or modification and such holders will have no right to any compensation whatsoever. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our results of operations and the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected Beginning in 2014 we undertook a formal assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2012. Any failure to maintain controls, or implement required new or improved controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If, in subsequent years, we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our ADSs. As a result of errors we found in our consolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2012, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and restated our consolidated statement of cash flow. These errors did not have any effect on the net increase (decrease) in cash for the year ended December 31, 2012. Furthermore, all underlying transactions were properly recorded in the 2012 statement of financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, which did not need to be revised or restated. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. We implemented certain measures to address this material weakness, including: enhancing the IFRS knowledge base of our accounting personnel through additional training; additional training for our accounting personnel specifically in the preparation of cash flow statements and completing the implementation of Hyperion, an automated consolidation system. We may in the future discover other areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we acquire. Peru has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States Financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Peru differ in certain significant respects from those required in the United States. There are also material differences among IFRS, Peruvian GAAP and U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to holders of shares issued by a U.S. company. In addition, the Peruvian Securities Market Law, which governs open or publicly listed companies, such as us, imposes disclosure requirements that are more limited than those in the U.S. in certain important respects. Although Peruvian law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Peruvian laws are different from those in the United States, and the Peruvian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. 35 Table of Contents Our status as a foreign private issuer allows us to follow alternate standards to the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, which may limit the protections afforded to investors We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under New York Stock Exchange rules, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practices of its home country and not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies with securities listed on the exchange. We currently follow certain Peruvian practices concerning corporate governance and intend to continue to do so. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. For example, the New York Stock Exchange listing standards provide that the board of directors of a U.S. listed company must have a majority of independent directors at the time the company ceases to be a “controlled company.” Under Peruvian corporate governance practices, a Peruvian company is not required to have a majority of independent members on its board of directors. The listing standards for the New York Stock Exchange also require that U.S. listed companies, at the time they cease to be “controlled companies,” have a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee (in addition to an audit committee). Each of these committees must consist solely of independent directors and must have a written charter that addresses certain matters specified in the listing standards. Under Peruvian law, a Peruvian company may, but is not required to, form special governance committees, which may be composed partially or entirely of non-independent directors. In addition, New York Stock Exchange rules require the independent non-executive directors of U.S. listed companies to meet on a regular basis without management being present. There is no similar requirement under Peruvian law. The New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards also require U.S. listed companies to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines. In July 2002, the Peruvian Securities Commission and a committee comprised of regulatory agencies and associations prepared and published a list of suggested non-mandatory corporate governance guidelines called the “Principles of Good Governance for Peruvian Companies.” Although we have implemented these measures, we are not legally required to comply with the corporate governance guidelines, only disclose whether or not we are in compliance. Minority shareholders in Peru are not afforded equivalent protections as minority shareholders in other jurisdictions and investors may face difficulties in commencing judicial and arbitration proceedings against our company or the controlling shareholder Our company is organized and existing under the laws of Peru. Accordingly, investors may face difficulties in serving process on our company, our officers and directors or our significant shareholders in the United States of certain other jurisdictions, and in enforcing decisions granted by courts located in other jurisdictions against our company, our officers and directors or our significant shareholders that are based on securities laws of jurisdictions other than Peru. In Peru, there are no proceedings to file class action suits or shareholder derivative actions with respect to issues arising between minority shareholders and an issuer, its controlling shareholders or directors and officers. Furthermore, the procedural requirements to file actions by shareholders differ from those of other jurisdictions, such as in the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, officers or significant shareholders as compared to the shareholders of a U.S. company. The deposit agreement provides that the depositary has no obligation to commence or become involved in any judicial proceedings and any other legal actions relating to the ADSs or the deposit agreement, either on behalf of the ADS holders or on behalf of any other person. Judgments of Peruvian courts with respect to our common shares will be payable only in nuevos soles If proceedings are brought in the courts of Peru seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than nuevos soles. Under Peruvian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Peru to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than nuevos soles may be satisfied in Peruvian currency only at the exchange rate, as determined by the Peruvian Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange rate may not afford non-Peruvian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the ADSs. 36 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts publish unfavorable research about our business or if they cease to follow our business, the price and trading volume of the ADSs could decline The trading market for the ADSs will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades the ADSs or publishes unfavorable research about our business, the price of the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for the ADSs could decrease, which could cause the price and trading volume of the ADSs to decline. 