Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our shares could decline resulting in the loss of part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect us. Drilling for and producing oil, natural gas and NGLs are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploration, exploitation, development and production activities. Our oil, natural gas and NGLs exploitation, development and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of information obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling 30 commences. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements and related lawsuits, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing or the discharge of greenhouse gases; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; •equipment failures or accidents; •fires and blowouts; •adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, blizzards and ice storms; •declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices; •limited availability of financing at acceptable rates; •title problems; and •limitations in the market for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, the following: •landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone; •staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation; •running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and •running tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following: •the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; •the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and •the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. The value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. The success of our horizontal drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems, declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices and/or other factors, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive 31 as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our exploration, exploitation, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Our total capital expenditures for 2013 were $240 million and our budgeted capital expenditures for 2014 are $350 million. Historically, we have funded development and operating activities primarily through a combination of equity capital raised from a private equity partner and our initial public offering, through borrowings under our bank credit facilities and through internal operating cash flows. We intend to finance the majority of our capital expenditures predominantly with cash flows from operations. If necessary, we may also access capital through proceeds from potential asset dispositions, borrowings under our credit facilities and the issuance of debt and equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •the estimated quantities of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; •the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce from existing wells; •the prices at which we sell our production; •the costs of developing and producing our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves; •take-away capacity; •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; •the ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and •our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to conduct our operations at expected levels. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility may restrict our ability to obtain new debt financing. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil, natural gas and NGLs production or reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties. External financing may be required in the future to fund our growth. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and financing under our senior secured revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility may not be available in the future. Without additional capital resources, we may be unable to pursue and consummate acquisition opportunities as they become available, and we may be forced to limit or defer our planned oil, natural gas and NGLs development program, which will adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our oil, natural gas and NGLs properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves in our areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. Approximately 44% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2013. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. In addition, declines in commodity prices could cause us to reevaluate our development plans and delay or cancel development. Delays in the development of 32 our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. A substantial or extended decline in oil, natural gas or NGL prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. The markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs historically have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: •regional and worldwide economic conditions impacting the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; •the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, natural gas and NGLs; •political conditions regionally, domestically or in other oil and gas-producing regions; •the level of domestic and global oil and natural gas exploration and production; •the level of domestic and global oil and natural gas inventories; •localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; •weather conditions and natural disasters; •domestic, local and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; •speculation as to the future price of oil, natural gas and NGLs and the speculative trading of oil, natural gas and NGLs; •trading prices of futures contracts; •price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; and •the impact of energy conservation efforts. NGLs are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. NGLs comprised 28% of our 2013 production, and we realized an average price of $33.30 per barrel. An extended decline in NGL prices could materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under contracts with market-based prices. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices will reduce our cash flows and the present value of our reserves. If oil, natural gas and NGL prices deteriorate, we anticipate that the borrowing base under our senior secured revolving credit facility, which is revised periodically, may be reduced, which would negatively impact our borrowing ability. Additionally, prices could reduce our cash flows to a level that would require us to borrow to fund our capital budget. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices may also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically. Substantial 33 decreases in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could render uneconomic a significant portion of our identified drilling locations. This may result in significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in oil, natural gas or NGL prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will naturally decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful development and acquisition activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, which in certain instances could prevent or delay associated expected production. In addition, we may not be able to raise the amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our identified drilling locations. Our management team has identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location that is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil, natural gas or NGLs in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. Similarly, the use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area of producing wells will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient quantities of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. In addition, our ability to drill and develop these drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering systems, marketing and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, a number of our identified drilling locations are associated with joint development agreements and if we do not meet our obligation to drill the minimum number of wells specified in an agreement, we will lose the right to continue to develop certain acreage covered by that agreement. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, natural gas or NGLs from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. 34 If commodity prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. Such impairment may also result in a reduction in proved reserves, thereby increasing future depletion charges per unit of production. We may incur impairment charges and related reductions in proved reserves in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Our estimated oil, natural gas and NGLs reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. Our estimates of our proved reserve quantities are based upon our reserve report as of December 31, 2013. Reserve estimation is a subjective process of evaluating underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGLs that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Reserves that are "proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions and that relate to projects for which the extraction of hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain will commence within a reasonable time. The process of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, and these reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions regarding future oil, natural gas and NGL prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on pricing conditions in existence during the period of assessment and costs at the end of the period of assessment. Changes to oil, natural gas and NGL prices in the markets for such commodities may have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain fields, because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve estimates. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Any significant variance in our assumptions and actual results could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. In addition, changes in future production cost assumptions could have a significant effect on our proved reserve quantities. If we do not fulfill our obligation to drill minimum numbers of wells specified in our joint development agreements, we will lose the right to develop the undeveloped acreage associated with the agreement and any proved undeveloped reserves attributable to such undeveloped acreage. If we do not meet our obligation to drill the minimum number of wells specified in a joint development agreement, we will lose the right to continue to develop the undeveloped acreage covered by the agreement, which would result in the loss of any proved undeveloped reserves attributable to such undeveloped acreage. 35 The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodities prices for the preceding 12 months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •commodity price hedging and actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs; •actual cost of development and production expenditures; •the amount and timing of actual development and production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our company or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Prior to the consummation of the IPO, as a limited liability company, we generally were not historically subject to entity-level taxation. Accordingly, our standardized measure for historical periods does not provide for federal or state corporate income taxes because taxable income was passed through to our equity holders. However, upon consummation of the IPO, we became subject to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, and our future income taxes will be dependent upon our future taxable income. If oil prices decline by $10.00 per Bbl, then our standardized measure as of December 31, 2013 excluding hedging impacts would decrease approximately $120.0 million. If natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per Mcf, then our standardized measure as of December 31, 2013 excluding hedging impacts would decrease by approximately $108.4 million. Over 97% of our estimated proved reserves are located in the Anadarko and Arkoma basins in the Texas Panhandle and Oklahoma, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area. Over 97% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2013 were located in the Anadarko and Arkoma basins in the Texas Panhandle and Oklahoma, approximately 65% of which are being produced from the Cleveland formation from properties located in four contiguous counties of Texas and Oklahoma. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services market limitations or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as our properties producing from the Cleveland formation, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 36 Our customer base is concentrated, and the loss of any one of our key customers could, therefore, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2013 purchases by our top four customers accounted for approximately 15%, 13%, 13% and 13%, respectively, of our total oil, natural gas and NGL sales. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. To the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases of oil, natural gas or NGLs or defaults on their obligations to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. In the future we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •the validity of our assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, commodity prices, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs; •an inability to successfully integrate the assets we acquire; •an inability to obtain satisfactory title to the assets we acquire; •a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; •a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; •the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we obtain no or limited indemnity or other recourse; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing assets; and •the occurrence of other significant changes, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. The success of any completed acquisition, including the Sabine acquisition, will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired assets into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired assets may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, even if we successfully integrate an 37 acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices in oil and natural gas industry conditions, risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. It is our practice, in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or undivided interests in oil and natural gas leases or other developed rights, not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be acquired. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and natural gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk's office to determine mineral ownership before we acquire an oil and gas lease or other developed rights in a specific mineral interest. Prior to the drilling of an oil or gas well, it is the normal practice in our industry for the operator of the well to obtain a drilling title opinion from a qualified title attorney to ensure there are no obvious title defects on the property on which the well is to be located. The title attorney would typically research documents that are of record, including liens, taxes and all applicable contracts that burden the property. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be undertaken to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to completely cure any title defects may invalidate our title to the subject property and adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. Additionally, because a less strenuous title review is conducted on lands where a well has not yet been scheduled, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint development agreements with third parties. Certain of our joint development agreements include drill-to-earn arrangements, whereby we are assigned title to properties from the third party after we complete wells and, in the case of certain counterparties, after completion reports relating to the wells have been approved by regulatory authorities whose approval may be delayed. Furthermore, certain of our joint development agreements specify that assignments are only to occur when the wells are capable of producing hydrocarbons in paying quantities. These additional conditions to assignment of title may from time to time apply to wells of substantial value. If one of our counterparties assigned title to a well in which we had earned an interest (according to our joint development agreement) to a third party, our title to such a well could be adversely impacted. In addition, if one of our counterparties becomes a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding, or is placed into receivership, or enters into an assignment for the benefit of creditors, after we had earned ownership of, but before we had received title to, a well, certain creditors of the counterparty may have rights in that well that would rank prior to ours. Our hedging strategy may be ineffective in reducing the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows, which could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs, we enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our commodity derivative contracts. For example, some of the commodity derivative contracts 38 we utilize are based on quoted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual prices we realize in our operations for oil, natural gas and NGLs. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility and our second lien term loan facility limit the aggregate notional volume of commodities that can be covered under commodity derivative contracts we can enter into and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of our production volumes. For the years ending December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, approximately 38%, 59%, 69% and 73%, respectively, of our estimated total oil, natural gas and NGL production, based on our reserve report as of December 31, 2013, will not be covered by commodity derivative contracts. Our policy has been to hedge a significant portion of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGLs production. However, our price hedging strategy and future hedging transactions will be determined at our discretion. We are not under an obligation to hedge a specific portion of our production. The prices at which we hedge our production in the future will be dependent upon commodity prices at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than current oil, natural gas and NGLs prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices received for our future production. Conversely, our hedging strategy may limit our ability to realize cash flows from commodity price increases. It is also possible that a larger percentage of our future production will not be hedged as compared with past years, which would result in our oil and natural gas revenues becoming more sensitive to commodity price changes. In addition, our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into commodity derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the notional amount of our commodity derivative contracts, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our commodity derivative contracts without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, substantially diminishing our liquidity. There may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the commodity derivative contract and the actual price received, which may result in payments to our derivative counterparty that are not offset by our receipt of payments for our production in the field. As a result of these factors, our commodity derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty's liquidity, which could impair their ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. Currently our entire hedge portfolio is hedged directly with banks in our credit agreements, thus allowing hedging without any margin requirements. During periods of falling commodity prices, our hedge receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss. 39 The adoption of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives to reduce the effect of commodity price risk, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. We use commodity derivatives to manage our commodity price risk. The U.S. Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that, among other things, establishes comprehensive federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and many of the entities that participate in that market. Although the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, and the SEC, along with certain other regulators, must promulgate final rules and regulations to implement many of its provisions relating to over-the-counter derivatives. While some of these rules have been finalized, some have not and, as a result, the final form and timing of the implementation of the new regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain. In particular, on October 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted final rules under the Dodd-Frank Act establishing position limits for certain energy commodity futures and options contracts and economically equivalent swaps, futures and options. The position limit levels set the maximum amount of covered contracts that a trader may own or control separately or in combination, net long or short. The final rules also contained limited exemptions from position limits which would be phased in over time for certain bona fide hedging transactions and positions. The CFTC's original position limits rule was challenged in court by two industry associations and was vacated and remanded by a federal district court. Since that time, the CFTC has reproposed the rule in substantially the same form as the rule that was vacated by the court, but with certain non-substantive changes in response to the court's decision. The CFTC has sought comment on the position limits rule as reproposed, but has yet to issue its final rule. The CFTC also has withdrawn its appeal of the court order vacating the original position limits rule. If these or similar position limits go into effect in the future, the timing of implementation of the final rules, their applicability to, and impact on, us and the ultimate success of any legal challenge to their validity remain uncertain, and they could have a material adverse impact on us by affecting the prices of or market for commodities relevant to our operations and/or by reducing the availability to us of commodity derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes a number of other new requirements on certain over-the-counter derivatives and subjects certain swap dealers and major swap participants to significant new regulatory requirements, which in certain cases may cause them to conduct their activities through new entities that may not be as creditworthy as our current counterparties, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us. The impact of this regulatory regime on the availability, pricing and terms and conditions of commodity derivatives remains uncertain, but the final requirements could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulations promulgated under it and the changes to the nature of the derivatives markets, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of commodity prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our revenue could, therefore, be adversely affected if commodity prices were to decrease. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. From time to time, legislation is introduced that would, if enacted, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws. These proposed changes have included repealing many tax incentives and deductions that 40 are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and imposing new fees. Among others, proposed changes have included: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and gas properties; repeal of the domestic manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical cost amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing federal oil and gas leases. The passage of legislation containing some or all of these provisions or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available to us with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenues. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than us. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas, but also engage in refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil, natural gas and NGL prices, to contract for drilling equipment, to secure trained personnel, and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. Competition has been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the engineering and technical, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments. In addition, competition is strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies, and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects. We frequently own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties will own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. A partner may be unable or unwilling 41 to pay its share of project costs, and, in some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services as well as fees for the cancellation of such services could adversely affect our ability to execute development and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our operation. The cost of oil field services typically fluctuates based on demand for those services. We may not be able to contract for such services on a timely basis, or the cost of such services may not remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel, including hydraulic fracturing equipment, supplies and personnel necessary for horizontal drilling, could delay or adversely affect our development and exploitation operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends in part on pipelines, transportation and gathering systems and processing facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil, natural gas and NGLs production and could harm our business. The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation methods, such as trucks, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. Also, the transfer of our oil, natural gas and NGLs on third-party pipelines may be curtailed or delayed if it does not meet the quality specifications of the pipeline owners. Our access to transportation options, including trucks owned by third parties, can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or transportation or processing facility capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil, natural gas and NGLs production and harm our business. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: •environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; •adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; 42 •abnormally pressured formations; •facility or equipment malfunctions; •mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; •fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; •personal injuries and death; and •terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage and associated clean-up responsibilities; •regulatory investigations, penalties or other sanctions; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights affect our operations by limiting the quantity of oil, natural gas and NGLs we may produce and sell. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration, production and transportation of oil, natural gas and NGLs, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their ultimate effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. The discharge of oil, natural gas, NGLs or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government, and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs for remediation. See "Item 1. Business—Regulations" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Our ability to pursue our business strategies may be adversely affected if we incur costs and liabilities due to a failure to comply with environmental regulations or a release of hazardous substances into the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental requirements applicable to the operation of our wells, gathering systems and other facilities. These costs and liabilities could 43 arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including, for example: •the Clean Air Act, or CAA, and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; •the Clean Water Act and Oil Pollution Act, or OPA, and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; •the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; •the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; •the Environmental Protection Agency's, or EPA's, community right to know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and comparable state laws that require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations; •the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, which establishes workplace standards for the protection of the health and safety of employees, including the implementation of hazard communications programs designed to inform employees about hazardous substances in the workplace, potential harmful effects of these substances, and appropriate control measures; •the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, which requires federal agencies to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment and which may require the preparation of Environmental Assessments and more detailed Environmental Impact Statements that may be made available for public review and comment; •the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds and, pursuant to which the taking, killing, or possessing of migratory birds is unlawful without a permit, thereby potentially requiring the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban on operations in affected areas; and •the Endangered Species Act, or ESA, and analogous state laws, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to exploration, development and production activities. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain a variety of permits or other authorizations governing our air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal or other environmental impacts associated with drilling, production and product transportation pipelines or other operations; regulate the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling, fracturing and completion processes; limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas; require remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits; and/or impose substantial liabilities for spills, pollution or failure to comply with regulatory filing requirements. In addition, these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal OPA and 44 analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where petroleum or hazardous substances or other waste products have been disposed of or otherwise released. More stringent laws and regulations, including laws related to climate change and greenhouse gases, may be adopted in the future. The trend of more expensive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. We are also subject to many other environmental requirements delineated in "Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation." Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas production activities as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, which could adversely affect our production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our oil and natural gas drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, in states where EPA is the permitting authority and released guidance in February 2014 on regulatory requirements for companies that plan to conduct hydraulic fracturing using diesel in those states. In addition, on November 23, 2011, the EPA announced that it was granting in part a petition to initiate rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act, relating to chemical substances and mixtures used in oil and gas exploration and production. Congress has also considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. Some states, including those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations under certain circumstances. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas, or TRRC, and the public of certain information regarding the components of the fluids used in the hydraulic fracturing process. On December 13, 2011, the TRRC finalized regulations requiring public disclosure of chemicals in fluids used in the hydraulic fracturing process for drilling permits issued after February 1, 2012. In addition, on October 20, 2011, Louisiana adopted new regulations for hydraulic fracturing operations in the state. These new regulations require hydraulic fracturing operators to publicly disclose the volume of hydraulic fracturing fluid, the type, trade name, supplier and volume of additives, and a list of chemical compounds contained in the additive, along with its maximum concentration, subject to certain trade secret protections. However, trade secret chemicals must be identified by their chemical family. The mandatory disclosure of information regarding the constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based upon allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment. In addition, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission has adopted rules prohibiting water pollution resulting from hydraulic fracturing operations and requiring disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Texas has also authorized the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to suspend water use rights for oil and gas users in the event of serious drought conditions and has imposed more stringent emissions, monitoring, inspection, maintenance, and repair requirements on Barnett Shale operators to 45 minimize Volatile Organic Compound, or VOC, releases. Also, Louisiana requires operators to minimize releases of gases into the open air after hydraulic fracturing in certain urban areas. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA is conducting a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. The EPA released its first progress report on this study in December 2012 and expects to release a final draft report for public comment and peer review in 2014. Moreover, the EPA announced on October 20, 2011 that it is launching a study of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose pretreatment standards this year. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy's Natural Gas Subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board conducted a review of hydraulic fracturing issues and practices and made recommendations to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or other statutory and/or regulatory mechanisms. President Obama created the Interagency Working Group on Unconventional Natural Gas and Oil by Executive Order on April 13, 2012, which is charged with coordinating and aligning federal agency research and scientific studies on unconventional oil and natural gas resources. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management, or BLM, is considering rules regarding well stimulation, chemical disclosures and other requirements for hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. BLM released a proposed rule requiring the disclosure of chemicals used during hydraulic fracturing and addressing drilling plans, water management and wastewater disposal, on federal and Indian lands in May 2012. However, BLM pulled back its proposal in January 2013 after reviewing comments and published an updated proposed rule on May 24, 2013. Further, on April 17, 2012, the EPA released final rules to subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAPS, programs. These rules became effective on October 15, 2012. The EPA rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically-fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPA's Natural Gas STAR program along with pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards will be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the regulations under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology, or MACT, standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. In October 2012, several challenges to the EPA's rules were filed by various parties, including environmental groups and industry associations. In a January 16, 2013 unopposed motion to hold this litigation in abeyance, the EPA indicated that it may reconsider some aspects of the rules. EPA issued a final rule revising certain aspects of the rules on August 5, 2013. Depending on the outcome of such 46 judicial proceedings and regulatory actions, the rules may be further modified or rescinded or the EPA may issue new rules. We are currently evaluating the effect these rules will have on our business. Additionally, on December 11, 2012, seven states submitted a notice of intent to sue the EPA to compel the agency to make a determination as to whether standards of performance limiting methane emissions from oil and gas sources are appropriate, and, if so, to promulgate performance standards for methane emissions from the oil and gas sector, which was not addressed in the EPA rules that became effective on October 15, 2012. The notice of intent also requested the EPA issue emission guidelines for the control of methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic-fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic-fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale formations, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. In December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on its findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one rule that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. Since January 2, 2011, the EPA has required new or modified stationary sources that emit GHGs at levels above regulatory and statutory thresholds to apply for a Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, permit under the Clean Air Act. The EPA set the current regulatory thresholds in its "Tailoring Rule," which was intended to avoid the need for large numbers of relatively small GHG-emitting sources to obtain a permit under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has also indicated that it may revise its Tailoring Rule carbon dioxide equivalent thresholds downward in a future rulemaking, which would likely subject additional stationary sources to GHG permitting requirements. The EPA has also proposed GHG New Source Performance Standards under the Clean Air Act for certain electric utility generating units and may propose GHG NSPS for additional source categories in the future. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States. On November 9, 2010, the EPA issued final rules to expand its existing GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities with reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities required on an annual basis. The first reports were due in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Consequently, 47 legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our production and increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations. We may face unanticipated water and other waste disposal costs. We may be subject to regulation that restricts our ability to discharge water produced as part of our gas production operations. Productive zones frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the gas to produce, and our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the various zones will determine whether we can produce gas in commercial quantities. The produced water currently is transported from the lease and injected into disposal wells. The availability of disposal wells with sufficient capacity to receive all of the water produced from our wells may affect our ability to produce our wells. Also, the EPA expects to issue new standards regarding the disposal of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing into publicly owned treatment facilities this year. Therefore, the cost to transport and dispose of that water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning water disposal, may reduce our profitability. In the event water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies, our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limits, the disposal wells fail to meet the requirements of all applicable regulatory agencies, or we are unable to secure access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of the produced water, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities for water handling or treatment. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur: •we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies; •water of lesser quality or requiring additional treatment is produced; •our wells produce excess water; •new laws and regulations require water to be disposed in a different manner; or •costs to transport the produced water to the disposal wells increase. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flow available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $77 million of total available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, subject to compliance with financial covenants. The impact of a 1.0% increase in interest rates on an assumed borrowing of the full $575 million available under our credit facilities would result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $6.0 million and a corresponding decrease in our net income. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. A significant reduction in our cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. 48 We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through farm-outs, areas of mutual interest and other joint development agreements. These agreements subject us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on the success of these operations, our financial position and our results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint development agreements with third parties, including ExxonMobil and Vanguard Natural Resources. We may also enter into other joint development agreements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint development agreement, such as the obligation to contribute capital or pay carried or other costs associated with the joint development agreement. The performance of these third party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint development agreements may involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example: •our joint development partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions; •our joint development partners may not pay their share of the joint development agreement obligations, leaving us liable for their share of joint development liabilities; •we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our joint development partners; •our joint development partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; and •disputes between us and our joint development partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above, the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint development partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business of such joint development, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Jones family and Metalmark Capital, our primary private equity investor, control a significant percentage of Jones Energy, Inc.'s voting power and have the ability to take actions that may conflict with your interests. As of December 31, 2013, the Jones family and Metalmark Capital held approximately 74.7% of the combined voting power of Jones Energy, Inc. Although the Jones family and Metalmark Capital are entitled to act separately in their own respective interests with respect to their ownership interests in Jones Energy, Inc., the Jones family and Metalmark Capital will have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, the Jones family and Metalmark Capital have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including mergers and other material transactions. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our development and exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. 49 If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. We have had limited accounting personnel to execute our accounting processes and limited other supervisory resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. As such, we have not maintained an effective control environment to ensure that the design and execution of our controls has consistently resulted in effective review of our financial statements and supervision by appropriate individuals. As a result of these factors, certain material misstatements in our annual financial statements were discovered and brought to the attention of our management by our independent registered public accounting firm for correction. These material misstatements included certain errors in our annual financial statements for the years ended 2010, 2011 and 2012, including out-of-period adjustments and errors in the calculation of our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense and our asset retirement obligations. We and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that these control deficiencies constituted a material weakness in our control environment. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The control deficiencies described above, at varying degrees of severity, contributed to the material weakness in the control environment as further described below. In 2010 and 2011, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure that correct inputs and formulas in spreadsheets were used in our calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization, or DD&A, expense. In 2012, the lack of effective controls over last-minute journal entries and use of final adjusted production data resulted in the misstatement of DD&A. For each of these periods, effective controls were not adequately designed or consistently operating to ensure that key computations were properly reviewed before the amounts were recorded in our accounting records. The above identified control deficiencies resulted in audit adjustments to our consolidated financial statements during 2010, 2011, and 2012. In December 2012, we were notified by the Oklahoma Tax Commission that sales tax had not been remitted on tangible property conveyed as part of the sale of a number of oil and gas properties. Consequently, tax expense for periods prior to 2012 was understated. In 2013, we identified Oklahoma regulations regarding the payment of interest on accrued royalties which had not been recorded. We determined the amount of interest payable and recognized additional interest expense which was incorporated into our Consolidated Statements of Operations, as revised. The lack of Oklahoma legal and tax expertise on our staff led to these oversights. Management is reviewing the internal control weakness related to these omissions to determine the proper organizational structure in response. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. To comply with the requirements of being a publicly traded company, we may need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting, finance, tax and legal staff. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 (except for the requirement for an auditor's attestation report) beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2014. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in 50 our efforts to comply with Section 404. If one or more material weaknesses persist or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Ineffective internal controls could also subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the "JOBS Act"). For as long as we remain an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700 million in market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, processing and distribution activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and transportation systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation and process and record financial and operating data. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats. Cyber-security attacks in particular are increasing and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses related to cyber-security attacks, we may suffer such losses in the future. Moreover, the various procedures and controls we use to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats may not be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business. We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil, natural gas and NGLs and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business. 51 We will be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for certain tax benefits it may receive (or be deemed to receive), and the amounts of such payments could be significant. We entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement with JEH LLC and the pre-IPO owners. This agreement generally provides for the payment by us of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances) as a result of (i) the tax basis increases resulting from the pre-IPO owners' exchange of JEH LLC Units with JONE for shares of Class A common stock (or resulting from a sale of JEH LLC Units for cash) and (ii) imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of, and additional tax basis arising from, any payments we make under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, payments we make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return. The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement are our obligations and not obligations of JEH LLC. For purposes of the Tax Receivable Agreement, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing our actual tax liability to the amount we would have been required to pay had we not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The term of the Tax Receivable Agreement will continue until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement by making the termination payment specified in the agreement. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of the exchanges of JEH LLC Units, the price of Class A common stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable, and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest or depletable, depreciable or amortizable basis. We expect that the payments that we will be required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement could be substantial. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditioned upon a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement having a continued ownership interest in either JEH LLC or us. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early or it is terminated early due to certain mergers or other changes of control, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement, which calculation of anticipated future tax benefits will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize such benefits and that any JEH LLC Units that the pre-IPO Owners or their permitted transferees own on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of such future benefits. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control due to the additional transaction cost a potential acquirer may attribute to satisfying such obligations. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. The holders of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if such basis increases or other benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to any pre-IPO Owner will be netted 52 against payments otherwise to be made, if any, to such pre-IPO owner after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than its actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 