Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks associated with any one of our businesses, as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this document, particularly the discussions about competition. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. Note that references to “our”, “us”, “we”, etc. used in each risk factor below refers to the business about which such risk factor is provided. Risks Related to Straight Path Spectrum We may never develop a significant market for leases, licenses or purchases of our spectrum assets, and we may not obtain meaningful revenues, or achieve profitability. Our Spectrum holdings are among the Company’s core assets. A substantial market for our spectrum licenses may never develop and the prospects for that market may be adversely affected by: ● the anticipated requirements for wireless small cell backhaul may not materialize; ● the small cell backhaul market may be dominated by unlicensed band wireless backhaul options; ● the small cell backhaul market may be dominated by fiber solutions not requiring any wireless spectrum; ● the macro network may not use 28/39GHz spectrum or very little of it; ● new wireless technologies that provide enough capability in existing Common Carrier frequencies, available at low cost from the FCC, may be sufficient for wireless backhaul needs of the small cell or macro backhaul network; ● front haul solutions including CPRI or remote radio head backhaul may not use 28/98GHz spectrum instead preferring fiber, Common Carrier channels or unlicensed band spectrum; ● small cells may require non line of sight spectrum for street level propagation mitigating the use-ability of 28/39GHz line of sight spectrum; ● FCC regulatory impact; ● new spectrum allocation by the FCC, thereby increasing more channels to be used by our competitors; ● lack of available equipment for our band from manufacturers; and ● cost of site acquisition for small cell placement. If we are unable to overcome these obstacles, the business may never develop and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Even if a market develops, we may be unable to successfully execute any of our currently identified business opportunities or future business opportunities that we determine to pursue. In order to pursue business opportunities, we will need to forge market alliances with hardware developers and system integrators, as well as maintain the integrity of our spectrum. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by one or more of the following factors: ● our ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; ● our ability to manage the expansion of our operations, which could result in increased costs, high employee turnover or damage to customer relationships; ● our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which may be affected by the significant competition in our industry for persons experienced in network operations and engineering; ● equipment failure (not provided by us) or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our customers; ● our ability to respond to regulatory or policy changes in our industry; ● our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving demands of the markets we serve; and ● our ability to raise substantial additional capital to fund our growth. 9 Our failure to adequately address one or more of the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan with respect to mobile backhaul and fiber network extensions and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. The success of our business strategy relies on the continued growth in demand for high volume of data for mobile and home use. The demand for backhaul needs depends on the continued growth in demand for high volume of data for mobile and home use. The provision of mobile use is a continuing evolving sector of the telecommunications industry, and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: ● the continued development and market acceptance of mobile devices enabled for mobile applications; ● the continued development and use of high-bandwidth mobile applications; ● historical perceptions regarding the burdens and unreliability of previous mobile wireless technologies; ● high rates of consumer adoption of mobile applications; ● increased levels of usage by subscribers; ● increased or burdensome government presence through policy and regulatory changes; and ● increases in the number of overall subscribers. Our revenues depend on the sale of backhaul to wireless service providers. We plan to derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of backhaul and related services to wireless service providers. Any competitor’s substitute service with similar performance and coverage characteristics and a lower cost structure could create downward price pressure and adversely affect our sales efforts. In addition, competing technologies could be developed that would make our services obsolete. Accordingly, any changes that could decrease demand for our services, whether due to pricing pressure, technological changes, or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The FCC may cancel or revoke our licenses for past or future violations of the FCC’s rules, which could limit our operations and growth. Our wireless operations and wireless licenses are subject to significant government regulation and oversight, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state, and local authorities. In general, the FCC’s regulations impose potential limits on, among other things, the amount of foreign investment that may be made in some types of FCC licenses, on the transfer or sale of rights in licenses, on the construction and technical aspects of the operation of wireless communication systems, and on the nature of the services that can be provided within a particular frequency band. In addition, we are subject to certain regulatory and other fees levied by the FCC for certain classes of licenses and services. Under some circumstances, our licenses may be canceled or conditioned. We also may be fined for any past or future violation of the FCC’s rules, and in extreme cases, our licenses may be revoked. Our FCC licenses are subject to renewal and substantial service requirements. If any licenses are not renewed upon expiration, that could limit the expansion of our business and our ability to lease spectrum and market services provided over our licenses, and could harm our operating results. Our spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten-year terms. The renewal date for our New York City LMDS license is in February 2016, renewal dates for our 132 other LMDS licenses are in 2018, and the renewal dates for our 39 GHz EA licenses are in 2020. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012, we derived no revenues from some of our LMDS licenses, although we believe our LMDS licenses are important to our business, as they complement our 39 GHz spectrum to serve our targeted customers. A “substantial service” requirement applies to each of these licenses. The FCC’s “substantial service” requirement for both LMDS and 39 GHz licensees is intended to provide licensees with flexibility in constructing their licenses. The “safe harbor” guidelines provide licensees with a degree of certainty as to how to comply with the requirement, but they are not the only way to demonstrate substantial service. Generally, if a licensee can demonstrate that it has made tangible use of the licensed frequencies, it should be able to make the requisite showing, although there is evolving precedent in this area. Furthermore, the FCC has taken a flexible approach to non-broadcast license renewal, an approach that has evolved over the past several years, including, for example, the potential for substantial service to be demonstrated by niche, specialized or technologically sophisticated services. We have filed substantial service showings for each of these licenses on or before the final construction deadline. Many of these showings have been accepted by the FCC, but some of them remain pending and there can be no assurance that the FCC will accept these pending substantial service showings. If the FCC finds that a licensee has failed to meet the substantial service requirement for any license that authorization is subject to termination. Although the FCC’s rules currently require that a wireless licensee in our spectrum bands demonstrate substantial service only during its initial license term, the FCC is considering whether to apply additional or more stringent performance requirements in conjunction with the license renewal process for subsequent license terms. If we are unable to meet any current or future requirements for renewal of any of our licenses, they may be subject to termination. 10 The value of our FCC licenses could decline, which could materially affect our ability to raise capital, and have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our stock. A decline in the value of our FCC licenses could negatively impact our ability to raise capital both privately and in the public markets and could significantly reduce the value of the spectrum assets. The value of any or all of our FCC licenses could decrease as a result of many factors, including: ● increases in supply of spectrum that provides similar functionality; ● new wireless technology in unlicensed bands that provides the same capability of our network; ● a decrease in the demand for services offered with any of our FCC licenses; ● lower values placed on similar licenses in future FCC auctions; ● regulatory limitations on the use, leases, transfer or sale of rights in any of our FCC licenses; or ● bankruptcy or liquidation of any comparable companies. Many of these factors depend on circumstances beyond our control. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The telecommunications and wireless markets are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate effectively. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. We expect to compete with new providers and technologies not yet introduced. Given the intense competition, we may be unable to compete effectively with other technologies and spectrum holders in the short-term and, consequently, we may be unable to develop our business objectives. Many of our competitors, particularly wireless carriers, are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources and experience than us. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors our business will be harmed. One of our competitive advantages is our national coverage, and particularly, the extensive bandwidth we are able to offer to customers in congested metropolitan areas. If competitors are able to offer a solution without any significant coverage exceptions, it could mitigate one of our competitive advantages and harm the attractiveness of our offering, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales. Many of our competitors offer other telecommunications and wireless solutions to complement their spectrum leasing and sales activities. Since we only offer sales and leasing services, we may not be able to compete with such competitors. Additional spectrum may become available from the FCC, increasing the number of or viability of our competitors or even allowing potential buyers to obtain their own spectrum outright, reducing their need to obtain spectrum from us. Other entities may obtain FCC licenses to operate spectrum in the same markets as we do, offering similar throughput capacities with comparable transmission reliability. These entities may decide to enter our business and may have more spectrum available to use in a given market than we do. If the FCC decides in the future to allocate additional spectrum in the high frequency bands to fixed services, the successful auction of that spectrum could increase the number of entities that hold this spectrum, and its general availability could have a material adverse effect on the value of our spectrum. Companies that would otherwise use our services could instead decide to acquire spectrum rights in these auctions or obtain services from the winners of those auctions. Unsuccessful auctions of the spectrum may generate low winning bids and could therefore reduce the values of spectrum in neighboring bands, including the value of our spectrum licenses. Alternatively, the FCC may decide to allocate additional spectrum for licensing without auctions to certain classes of users, such as state and local government agencies, that otherwise might be potential customers of our services. In addition, the FCC has in recent years taken action to maximize the use of the common carrier spectrum that is available to the public at low cost. Such spectrum may be sufficient to meet the wireless backhaul needs of the small cell or macro backhaul network. If the FCC continues to take such actions or allocates additional spectrum to common carrier operations, such regulatory activity could have a material adverse effect on our spectrum. We anticipate a lengthy sales cycle, which could make our revenues difficult to forecast and cause our results to fall short of expectations. We anticipate that our sales cycle will be lengthy due to the time often necessary for customized design of specific solutions or the possibility that our customers may incur added recurring costs for our products and service offerings or added one-time costs to replace their current telecommunications systems. Our sales cycles will be subject to a number of significant delays over which we have little or no control. Due to our anticipated lengthy sales cycle, we expect that our revenues will be difficult to forecast and may fall short of expectations. 11 Because we are thinly staffed and highly dependent on a limited number of management persons, we may not be able to pursue longer term business opportunities, which could limit our revenue growth. As of July 31, 2013, we had 4 employees who work directly for us. We have historically relied on IDT and certain of its affiliates for services and support. Our ability to find and respond to opportunities to deliver our services in a cost-effective manner may be limited by the number of personnel we employ and our lack of capital and other operational resources. Even if we are able to identify customers to whom we can provide services, we may have to hire additional personnel without whom we may only be able to provide limited support for those services. This could result in customer dissatisfaction and loss. Additionally, our competitors, many of whom have significantly more personnel and greater resources, may be better able to seek and respond to opportunities than we can. A substantial portion of Straight Path Spectrum’s historical revenues were derived from a limited number of customers, and the loss of those customers would have a negative effect on our revenues. The loss of any of these major customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Concentration of Customers” in Item 7 of Part II “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report. In March and April 2012, Straight Path Spectrum closed on the sale of rights in spectrum partitioned and/or disaggregated from eight of its spectrum licenses covering metropolitan areas from its nationwide portfolio. We received cash of $6.8 million in exchange for the licenses and recorded a gain of $5.3 million on the sale of rights in licenses in fiscal 2012. Revenue generated from selling of our spectrum licenses will likely not continue as it is not the primary focus of our current business plan. The extensive and continually evolving regulations to which we are subject could increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan successfully. The FCC, various state regulatory bodies, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities regulate us and the operation and installation of the underlying equipment. These regulators conduct regular rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules that apply to us and affect our business operations, directly or indirectly. The FCC in particular imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how wireless spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to our fixed wireless licenses and operations could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. Such regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us or our customers, reduce the attractiveness of our service, give rights to our competitors, increase our costs, make the business plans of the carriers or other customers that purchase or may purchase our services less viable, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Interruption or failure of information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to provide services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the expected results. Any service disruptions may have an immediate and significant impact on our ability to attract, retain, and grow customer revenues, which would harm our business and operating results. We also depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of these systems could result in interruptions in service. Interruptions in service could reduce revenues and harm operating results, and our brand could be damaged if people believe the network is unreliable. These systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, riots, acts of war, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at any network center could result in lengthy interruptions in service and adversely affect operating results. If our data security measures are breached, our reputation and business may be harmed. We rely on the security of our networks to deliver our services to customers. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate preventive measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. Consequently, unauthorized parties may overcome these security systems and obtain access to data on the network. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our networks including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. In addition, because we operate and control the network and the customers' network connectivity, unauthorized access or sabotage of our network could result in damage to our network and to the computers or other devices used by customers or carriers. An actual or perceived breach of network security, regardless of whether the breach is our fault, could harm public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, expose us to significant liability and adversely affect our business prospects. 12 The industry in which we operate is continually evolving. Our services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The wireless communications services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. The backhaul infrastructure that supports this dynamic industry must be similarly flexible and able to adapt to these changes. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with this reliance on technological development, such as: ● competition from service providers using other means to deliver similar or alternative services; ● competition from new service providers using more efficient, less expensive technologies, including products or services not yet invented or developed; ● customers self-provisioning their own backhaul services; ● gaining and sustaining market acceptance of the technology underlying our services; ● realizing economies of scale; ● responding successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner; and ● existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies that may render fixed wireless backhaul and other services less profitable or obsolete. As the services offered by us and our competitors develop, wireless carriers may not accept our services as a commercially viable alternative to other means of delivering wireless backhaul and other services. Accordingly, our inability to keep pace with technological development could materially and adversely affect our business. Additional Risks Related to our FCC Licenses Our reliance upon spectrum licensed by the FCC includes additional risks. Our use of FCC-licensed spectrum imposes additional risks on our business, including: ● increases in spectrum acquisition costs; ● adverse changes to regulations governing spectrum/licensee rights; ● the risk that spectrum will not be commercially usable or free of harmful interference from licensed or unlicensed operators in our or adjacent bands; ● the risk that the government or other license holders introduce an oversupply of substantially similar spectrum into the market; ● contractual disputes with or the bankruptcy or other reorganization of the license holders, which could adversely affect control over the spectrum subject to such license; ● the risk that competitors, customers or other users may over utilize line of sight licensed spectrum and thus alter the FCC availability or allocation of such wireless spectrum in markets or geographic areas where we require it; ● change in the FCC rules regarding the licensing or use of wireless spectrum; and ● invalidation of any authorization to use all or a significant portion of the spectrum, resulting in, among other things, impairment charges related to assets recorded for such spectrum. Risks Related to Straight Path IP Group We may fail to enforce our intellectual property rights. Straight Path IP Group’s patent portfolios are among the Company’s core assets. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate protections, or are unsuccessful in enforcing our patent rights, we may not be able to either realize additional value from our patents, or prevent third parties from benefiting from those patents without benefit to the Company. In addition, the Company’s existing patents have finite lives, and the patents start to expire on September 25, 2015, although Straight Path IP Group may continue to enforce the patents for patent infringement that occurred before expiration. There is no guarantee that they will be adequately exploited or commercialized. The USPTO may grant a re-examination of our patents. In 2010 and 2011, certain patents in Straight Path IP Group’s portfolio successfully emerged from re-examination proceedings at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Nevertheless, our patents may be subject to further requests to the USPTO to reexamine our patents. Although we believe that our patents are valid, they may be deemed invalid during a re-examination. Moreover, any litigation filed after the grant of a re-examination may be subject to an order to stay the litigation while the re-examination proceeds. Therefore, while a re-examination is pending, we may be unable to enforce our patents. 13 The USPTO may grant an inter partes review. The America Inventors Act (“AIA”) created a new procedure for challenging an issued patent at the Patent Office, the inter partes review. A petitioner challenging a patent must allege “that there is a reasonable likelihood that the petitioner would prevail with respect to at least 1 of the claims challenged in the petition.” 35 U.S.C. § 314(a). On April 11, 2013, Sipnet EU S.R.O., a Czech company, (“Petitioner”) filed a petition for an inter partes review at the Patent Office for certain claims of U.S. Patent 6,108,704 (“the ’704 Patent”). On October 11, 2013, the Patent Office partially granted the request and instituted an inter partes review. On October 25, 2013, Straight Path IP Group filed a petition for rehearing, requesting review of the decision, which is pending. We intend to vigorously defend the claims of the ’704 Patent. Although we believe that our patents are valid, they may be deemed invalid during the inter partes review. Moreover, during the pendency of this or any other inter partes review that is granted at a later date, any litigation related to the patents in review could potentially be subject to an order to stay the litigation while the review proceeds. Therefore, while a review is pending, we may be unable to enforce our patents. Our exposure to uncontrollable outside influences, including new legislation, court rulings or actions by the USPTO, could adversely affect our licensing and enforcement business and results of operations. Our licensing and enforcement business is subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating subsidiary acquires patents with enforcement opportunities and is spending a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the USPTO or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. Recently, United States patent laws were amended with the enactment of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which took effect on March 16, 2013. The America Invents Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. In general, the legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the enforceability of patents and the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, establishing new procedures for patent litigation. For example, the America Invents Act changes the way that parties may be joined in patent infringement actions, increasing the likelihood that such actions will need to be brought against individual parties allegedly infringing by their respective individual actions or activities. At this time, it is not clear what, if any, impact the America Invents Act will have on the operation of our enforcement business. However, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of our patented technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, has conducted reviews to evaluate the impact of patent assertion entities on industries in which those patents relate. It is possible that the findings and recommendations of the DOJ could impact the ability to effectively license and enforce patents and could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement of any such patented technologies. Further, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. Finally, leading US politicians have recently made statements related to regulation of patent enforcement entities. Any such legislation that materially restricts our enforcement activities could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on Straight Path IP Group’s business plan, the value of our patents and our operating results. Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over patent enforcement actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. 14 As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or any third party claims to invalidate our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the future, it may be necessary for us to commence patent litigation against third parties whom we believe require a license to our patents, as was the case in ooVoo, LLC, Vivox, Inc., and Stalker Software, Inc. We may incur significant expenses and commit significant management time with respect to such legal proceedings which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in any additional legal proceedings and the outcome of such litigation could be harmful to us. In addition, we may be subject to claims seeking to invalidate our patents, as typically asserted by defendants in patent litigation. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing and validating our patents and/or if third parties making claims against us seeking to invalidate our patents are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block our ability to license or otherwise capitalize on our proprietary technologies. In addition, then existing licensees of our patents may no longer be obligated to pay royalties to us. Successful litigation against us resulting in a determination that our patents are not valid or enforceable, and/or that third parties do not infringe, may have a material adverse effect on us. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available, or may not be available on favorable terms. We may need additional funds to finance our operations to make additional investments, or to acquire complementary businesses or assets. We may be unable to generate these funds from our operations. Additionally, we may experience delays in collecting judgments if defendants decide to appeal jury findings of infringement at federal district courts. Upon the Spin-Off, IDT capitalized SPCI such that it had $15 million in addition to the other assets of the business. Following the Spin-Off, SPCI became a separate publically traded company. The availability of new technology may render our intellectual property obsolete. While we anticipate that our technology will remain relevant to internet telephony and other applications at least through the expiration of our patents, unanticipated rapid widespread adoption of new technologies that do not infringe our patents could affect our enforcement strategy. In addition, prospective licensees may seek to develop ‘work arounds’ to our Patents for purposes of avoiding entering into a licensing agreement with Straight Path IP Group. We are subject to litigation. Our business model relies on licensing and otherwise realizing value on our communications over the Internet patent portfolio. We may enforce our patents in United States federal district courts, which hold exclusive jurisdiction to hear claims of patent infringement and other forums. We may be subject to counterclaims including but not limited to alleging that the asserted patents are not infringed, invalid, and/or unenforceable. On December 11, 2012, Straight Path IP Group filed a demand for arbitration seeking a declaration that its former Chief Executive Officer’s (the “Former SPIP CEO”) employment was properly terminated for cause and that the Former SPIP CEO is not entitled to severance or certain equity rights under his employment agreement. On March 15, 2013, the Former SPIP CEO filed a response and counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking various forms of relief. Specifically, he is seeking certain declarations related to the termination of his employment, and he is seeking certain payments and the vesting of options to purchase common stock representing 5% of the outstanding common stock of Straight Path IP Group, damages for unpaid compensation and severance, a sum in excess of $35 million in compensatory damages, and punitive damages in an unspecified amount. A portion of those rights and certain of the terms thereof are subject to a dispute between us and that individual. The parties have selected an arbitrator, commenced discovery, and set a case management schedule. The Company does not believe that the Former SPIP CEO’s counterclaims have merit, and is vigorously seeking to enforce its rights, prevail on its claims, and defend against the defendant’s counterclaims. At the current time, the Company cannot reasonably estimate its likely exposure in this matter. Risk Factors Generally Relating to Us and Our Common Stock Investors may suffer dilution. We may engage in equity financing to fund our future operations and growth. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest (both with respect to the percentage of total securities held, and with respect to the book value of their securities) and such securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. 15 We are controlled by our principal stockholder, which limits the ability of other stockholders to affect the management of the Company. Howard Jonas placed all of the SPCI Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock distributed in the Spin-Off that would be beneficially owned by him in trust with an independent trustee, the Alliance Trust Company LLC (the “Trustee”). Howard Jonas retained the economic benefit of the shares placed in the trust, but does not have voting or dispositive power or control with respect to such shares. The Trustee has voting power or control over 2,190,152 shares of our common stock (which includes 787,163 shares of our Class A common stock and 1,402,989 shares of our Class B common stock) and representing approximately 72% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock, as of October 17, 2013. Mr. Jonas’ consent is needed with respect to certain significant corporate matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence our management will be limited. We intend to exercise our option for the “controlled company” exemption under NYSE MKT rules with respect to our Nominating Committee. Following the Spin-Off, we will be a “controlled company” as defined in section 801(a) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide because more than 50% of the combined voting power of all of our outstanding common stock will be beneficially owned by a single stockholder. As a “controlled company,” we will be exempt from certain NYSE MKT rules requiring a board of directors with a majority of independent members, a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors and a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors. These independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet those standards are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. We intend to apply this “controlled company” exemption for our corporate governance practices only with respect to the independence requirements of our Nominating Committee. Accordingly, with respect to our Nominating Committee you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE MKT, and if we were to apply the controlled company exemption to other independence requirements, you would not have the protection afforded by those requirements either. We have limited resources and could find it difficult to raise additional capital. As a result of the Spin-Off, we are independent from IDT. We have no operating history as an independent company, and no current sources of financing. Any financing formerly provided to any of our businesses by IDT will no longer be available. We may need to raise additional capital in order for stockholders to realize increased value on our securities. Given the current global economy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary funding on commercially reasonable terms in a timely fashion. Failure to receive the funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 