D. Risk factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. Risks related to our business and industry We depend heavily on the success of drisapersen. Drisapersen and all of our other product candidates are still in preclinical and clinical development and clinical trials of our product candidates may not be successful. If we are unable to commercialize drisapersen and our other product candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of drisapersen and our other product candidates targeting patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD. All of our product candidates are still in preclinical and clinical development. Our ability to generate royalty and product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for at least the next several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development and eventual commercialization of these product candidates, particularly drisapersen. In connection with obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. In September 2013, we announced that the Phase III clinical trial of drisapersen did not meet its primary endpoint. Although we believe that the collective data from our various Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of drisapersen, including retrospective and subgroup analyses, provide strong support for concluding that drisapersen showed clinically meaningful improvements over placebo in these trials, we cannot be sure that our data will be sufficient to satisfy the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We may need to conduct additional clinical trials at significant delay and cost or abandon development of drisapersen altogether. Even if we receive regulatory approval for and are able to commercialize drisapersen and our other product candidates, our success will be subject to the following risks: · we may not achieve market acceptance of drisapersen by physicians, patients and third-party payors; · drisapersen and our other product candidates may not have an acceptable safety profile following approval; · we may not be able to manufacture drisapersen in compliance with requirements of the EMA, the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in commercial quantities sufficient to meet market demand; · we may not achieve sufficient pricing for drisapersen to compensate for development, post-licensing and commercialization costs; · we may not compete successfully with any alternative therapies for DMD; and · we may not successfully enforce and defend our intellectual property rights and claims. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our conclusions regarding the efficacy of drisapersen are based on retrospective analyses of the results of our clinical trials, these analyses may be considered less reliable indicators of efficacy than pre-specified analyses. After determining that we did not achieve the primary efficacy endpoint in the completed Phase III clinical trial of drisapersen, we performed retrospective and subgroup analyses of the Phase III clinical trial and prior Phase II clinical trials of drisapersen that we believe provide strong support for concluding that drisapersen showed clinically meaningful improvements over placebo in these trials. Although we believe that these additional analyses were warranted, a retrospective analysis performed after unblinding trial results can result in the introduction of bias if the analysis is inappropriately tailored or influenced by knowledge of the data and actual results. Because of these limitations, regulatory authorities typically give greatest weight to results from pre-specified analyses and less weight to results from post-hoc, retrospective analyses. Thus, this increases the likelihood that we will have to conduct an additional clinical trial or trials of drisapersen before we can apply for marketing approval. Because we are developing product candidates for the treatment of diseases in which there is little clinical experience and, in some cases, using new endpoints or methodologies, there is more risk that the outcome of our clinical trials will not be favorable. There is currently no approved disease-modifying therapy for DMD. In addition, there has been limited historical clinical trial experience generally for the development of drugs to treat the underlying cause of DMD. As a result, the design and conduct of clinical trials for this disease, particularly for drugs to address the underlying cause of this disease, is subject to increased risk. In particular, regulatory authorities in the United States and European Union have not issued definitive guidance as to how to measure and achieve efficacy. In the last several years, the six minute walk test, or 6MWT, has been used in several trials of product candidates for patients with DMD, and is accepted by U.S. and European regulators to be an appropriate primary outcome measure for DMD trials. Because of the limited clinical experience in this indication however, regulators have not yet established what difference in the distance walked in the 6MWT, or 6MWD, is required to be demonstrated in a clinical trial of a DMD therapy in order to signify a clinically meaningful result and/or obtain regulatory approvals. As a result, it is not clear what is required in terms of 6MWD or other end points to obtain regulatory approval for drisapersen and our other product candidates. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials of drisapersen, the design of such trials could be subject to such uncertainties. We could also face similar challenges in designing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for future product candidates, including any that we may develop for myotonic dystrophy (DM1) or Huntington’s disease (HD) because there is also limited historical clinical trial experience for the development of drugs to treat these diseases. The termination of our collaboration with GSK requires that we quickly expand our development, regulatory and potentially sales and marketing capabilities and take over sponsorship of clinical trials, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. In January 2014, we and GSK mutually terminated our collaboration for the development of drisapersen and our other DMD product candidates. Under the termination agreement, GSK will transfer to us data and other intellectual property, inventory, regulatory filings and clinical trial sponsorships, clinical trial reports, material agreements and biological materials as soon as practicable and within 120 days of the effective date of the agreement. We will have to quickly and greatly expand our capabilities to achieve a smooth transition of the development of drisapersen from GSK to us, and we may be unable to do so effectively or at all. In the future we will be entirely responsible for managing our clinical trials. We may not have the resources or expertise to support the clinical trials needed to develop our product candidates, and we may not be able obtain those resources and expertise efficiently or at all. We may also be the subject to litigation in connection with our clinical sponsorship. Although GSK has agreed to indemnify us in certain circumstances, we may not be able to recoup any such expenses in a timely matter, or at all. We will also be fully responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals for drisapersen and our other product candidates. We have never successfully obtained regulatory approvals for a product candidate and we may not have the expertise to do so. If drisapersen or another product candidate receives marketing approval, we will be solely responsible for commercializing it. We have never commercialized a product and may not be successful in doing so. We may enter into future collaborations with respect to these operations, and any future collaboration would be subject to numerous execution risks. 8 We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We have a history of operating losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we fail to obtain additional funding to conduct our planned research and development effort, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercial development efforts. We incurred net losses of €16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2012: €9.9 million, 2011: €11.6 million). Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our product candidates and from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We are currently conducting a full evaluation of the benefit-to-risk profile of drisapersen; and until we conclude our analysis, we will not be able to estimate our near-to-medium term research and development budget. To date, we have financed our operations through offerings of equity securities, upfront, milestone and expense reimbursement payments received from GSK under our collaboration and funding from patient organizations, governmental bodies and bank loans. Funding from GSK under our collaboration agreement comprised a significant portion of our revenue, and we will not receive any such additional funds now that the collaboration has terminated. To date we have not generated any revenues from product sales. Based on our current plans, we do not expect to generate significant product revenues unless we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, drisapersen or any of our other product candidates. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We will need to seek additional funding. Additional funds may not be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all, and such funds, if raised, may not be sufficient to enable us to continue to implement our long-term business strategy. Even if we do generate product revenues, we may never achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to sustain profitability would depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the market price of our ordinary shares also could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Until recently we collaborated with GSK on the development of the products in our DMD portfolio, and the funding we received from GSK covered a substantial portion of our development costs. Now that the GSK collaboration has been terminated, we will be responsible for all of the research and development costs for our product candidates going forward. In addition, the Phase III trial of drisapersen that was completed in September 2013 did not meet its primary endpoint; and consequently regulators may require that we conduct additional trials of drisapersen in order to apply for regulatory approvals. Such trials would be costly. As a result, we expect our research and development expenses to increase significantly. We are currently conducting a full evaluation of the benefit-to-risk profile of drisapersen; and until we conclude our analysis, we will not be able to estimate our near-to-medium term research and development budget. If we obtain regulatory approval for drisapersen or any of our other product candidates, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. 9 Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, grants and clinical trial support from governmental and philanthropic organizations and patient advocacy groups, or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties. In the event we need to seek additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a holder of our ordinary shares. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Exchange rate fluctuations or abandonment of the euro currency may materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the international scope of our operations, fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the euro, and the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect us. Although we are based in the Netherlands, we source research and development, manufacturing, consulting and other services from several countries. Further, potential future revenue may be derived from abroad, particularly from the United States. As a result, our business and share price may be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the euro and these other currencies, which may also have a significant impact on our reported results of operations and cash flows from period to period. Currently, we do not have any exchange rate hedging arrangements in place. In addition, the possible abandonment of the euro by one or more members of the European Union could materially affect our business in the future. Despite measures taken by the European Union to provide funding to certain E.U. member states in financial difficulties and by a number of European countries to stabilize their economies and reduce their debt burdens, it is possible that the euro could be abandoned in the future as a currency by countries that have adopted its use. This could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more E.U. member states, or in more extreme circumstances, the dissolution of the European Union. The effects on our business of a potential dissolution of the European Union, the exit of one or more E.U. member states from the European Union or the abandonment of the euro as a currency, are impossible to predict with certainty, and any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to the development and clinical testing of our product candidates Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with uncertain timelines and uncertain outcomes. If clinical trials of our product candidates are prolonged or delayed or unsuccessful, we may be unable to obtain required regulatory approvals, and therefore be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis or at all. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through extensive preclinical and clinical trials that our products are safe and effective in humans. The process for obtaining governmental approval to market our products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly. It is impossible to predict the extent to which this process may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. Due to these and other factors, such as the fact that no product using antisense oligonucleotides, or AONs, for systemic use has been approved for sale in the European Union and only one AON is approved for systemic use in the United States, our current product candidates or any of our other future product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected or may never gain regulatory approval. This could delay or eliminate any potential product revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with EMA, FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities’ legal requirements, regulations or guidelines, and are subject to oversight by these governmental agencies and Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under 10 current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other requirements. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs , to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice, or GCP. To the extent the CROs fail to enroll participants for our clinical trials, fail to conduct the studies to GCP standards or are delayed for a significant time in the execution of trials, including achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, clinical trials are conducted in countries outside the European Union and the United States, which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of non-E.U. and non-U.S. CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with clinical investigators who are unknown to the EMA or the FDA, and different standards of diagnosis, screening and medical care. Our lead compound drisapersen completed a Phase III clinical trial in September 2013 but failed to meet its primary endpoint. The trials of our other compounds are less advanced or have not yet started. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our products may be delayed, suspended or terminated as a result of many factors, including but not limited to: · negative or inconclusive results, such as the Phase III clinical trial of drisapersen, which may require us to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials or to abandon projects that we expect to be promising; · safety or tolerability concerns could cause us to suspend or terminate a trial if we find that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; · the delay or refusal of regulators or IRBs to authorize us to commence a clinical trial at a prospective trial site and changes in regulatory requirements, policies and guidelines; · regulators or IRBs requiring that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; · delays or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites; · delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; · the inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect statistically significant treatment effects; · lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; · our third-party research contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all; · difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; · delays in establishing the appropriate dosage levels; · the difficulty in certain countries in identifying the sub-populations that we are trying to treat in a particular trial, which may delay enrollment and reduce the power of a clinical trial to detect statistically significant results; · the quality or stability of the product candidate falling below acceptable standards; · the inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete clinical trials; and · exceeding budgeted costs due to difficulty in predicting accurately costs associated with clinical trials. Since we have adopted a platform technology approach and all of our current clinical development candidates use similar process technology and are similarly applied to DMD, any of the above unforeseen difficulties that arise with one of our clinical development candidates may negatively affect all of our product candidates. 11 The EMA, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process, and determining when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any of our product candidates. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the EMA, the FDA or any other regulatory authority. In general, the FDA has usually suggested two adequately designed and powered and well-controlled trials to demonstrate effectiveness, and the FDA may require additional clinical trials, possibly using a different design, before it will consider granting approval to drisapersen. Any delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our products could increase our product development costs and delay marketing approval and commercialization of our products. For instance, in 2009 we held a pre-IND meeting with the FDA to discuss PRO044 clinical studies, and the FDA determined that we had insufficient data at that time to support the initiation of a clinical trial of PRO044 in the United States. PRO044 continues to be on clinical hold in the United States pending the results of long-term preclinical safety studies which are expected to be completed in the first half of 2014. In addition, in 2010, the FDA determined that inadequate data had been presented to support long-term studies of drisapersen and requested additional safety data. Upon submission of additional data, the FDA lifted the clinical hold on drisapersen in 2011. It is also possible that none of our products will complete clinical trials in any of the markets in which we intend to sell those products. If this were to happen, we would not receive the regulatory approvals needed and we would not be able to market our products. Significant clinical trial delays could also allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do or shorten any periods during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. Failure to obtain marketing authorization for our product candidates will result in our being unable to market and sell such products, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial conditional and results of operation. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. If we fail to obtain approval in any jurisdiction, the geographic market for our product candidates could be limited. Similarly, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. If serious adverse, undesirable or unacceptable side effects are identified during the development of our product candidates, we may need to abandon our development of such product candidates; and will not have a complete picture of the benefit-to-risk profile of drisapersen until GSK completes the transfer to us of drisapersen safety data. If our product candidates are associated with serious adverse, undesirable or unacceptable side effects, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or sub-populations in which such side effects are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early-stage or clinical testing have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. Transient proteinuria (protein in the urine) was observed in all twelve patients in our Phase I/II study of drisapersen, and eleven patients demonstrated signs of proteinuria at week twelve of the extension phase of this trial. Other reported adverse events from this study included injection site reactions, which were seen to varying degrees of severity in all subjects, raised cystatin C (a protein indicative of kidney function), decreased C3 (a protein indicating immunological activity), low platelet counts and raised liver enzymes, including GLDH and gamma GT, which may indicate abnormal liver function. In addition, clinical trial experience to date with drisapersen indicates adverse events that include proteinuria, local injection site reactions (pain, bruising, erythema, induration, pigmentation), thrombocytopenia (decrease in the amount of platelets in the blood) and increases in certain liver enzymes. In addition to the adverse events noted above, single reports have been received of the following clinical conditions: intracranial venous sinus thrombosis (blood clot), extramembranous glomerulonephritis (inflammation affecting part of the kidney) and nephrotic-linked proteinuria. Such side effects could be raised by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities and could be an impediment to receipt of marketing approval or physician or patient acceptance of drisapersen or our other product candidates because of concerns related to safety. In January 2014, we and GSK mutually terminated our collaboration for the development of drisapersen and our other DMD product candidates. Under the termination agreement, GSK agreed to transfer to us, inter alia, data and clinical trial reports as soon as practicable and within 120 days of the effective date of the agreement. As of the date of this Annual Report, the transition is still in process. In particular, GSK has not yet transferred to us certain data and safety data for various clinical trials conducted by GSK for which dosing has 12 been suspended but safety data is still being collected. Therefore, as of the date of this Annual Report we may not have complete information regarding the safety profile of drisapersen. Information we receive from GSK in the future may affect our evaluation of the benefit-to-risk profile of drisapersen and our future development plans for it. We depend on enrollment of patients in our clinical trials for our product candidates. If we are unable to enroll patients in our clinical trials, our research and development efforts and business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Successful and timely completion of clinical trials will require that we enroll a sufficient number of patient candidates. Trials may be subject to delays as a result of patient enrollment taking longer than anticipated or patient withdrawal. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, eligibility criteria for the trial, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the nature of the trial protocol, competing clinical trials and the availability of new drugs approved for the indication the clinical trial is investigating. The successful completion of our clinical trials for our DMD product candidates is dependent upon our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in the sub-populations of DMD patients that our particular product candidates target. Our product candidates focus on the treatment of DMD, which is a rare disease with a small patient population. As our products target sub-populations of DMD patients and trial enrollment is limited to boys in a certain age range only, the number of patients eligible for our trials is even smaller. Further, there are only a limited number of specialist physicians and major clinical centers are concentrated in a few geographic regions. In addition, other companies are conducting clinical trials and have announced plans for future clinical trials that are seeking, or are likely to seek, to enroll patients with the same conditions that we are studying and patients are generally only able to enroll in one single trial at a time. The small population of patients, competition for these patients. Limited trial sites and past clinical trial results may make it difficult for us to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may become exposed to costly and damaging liability claims, either when testing our product candidates in the clinic or at the commercial stage; and our product liability insurance may not cover all damages from such claims. We are exposed to potential product liability and professional indemnity risks that are inherent in the research, development, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical products. Currently we have no products that have been approved for commercial sale; however, the current and future use of product candidates by us in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made by patients that use the product, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies, our collaborators or others selling such products. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could be difficult and costly to defend and could materially adversely affect the market for our product candidates or any prospects for commercialization of our product candidates. Although the clinical trial process is designed to identify and assess potential side effects, it is always possible that a drug, even after regulatory approval, may exhibit unforeseen side effects. If any of our product candidates were to cause adverse side effects during clinical trials or after approval of the product candidate, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Physicians and patients may not comply with any warnings that identify known potential adverse effects and patients who should not use our product candidates. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance for our product candidates, it is possible that our liabilities could exceed our insurance coverage. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. Should any of the events described above occur, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, they will be subject to continual regulatory review. If marketing authorization is obtained for any of our product candidates, the product will remain subject to continual review and therefore authorization could be subsequently withdrawn or restricted. We will be subject to ongoing obligations and oversight by regulatory authorities, including adverse event reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and, potentially, other post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products. 13 If there are changes in the application of legislation or regulatory policies, or if problems are discovered with a product or our manufacture of a product, or if we or one of our distributors, licensees or co-marketers fails to comply with regulatory requirements, the regulators could take various actions. These include imposing fines on us, imposing restrictions on the product or its manufacture and requiring us to recall or remove the product from the market. The regulators could also suspend or withdraw our marketing authorizations, requiring us to conduct additional clinical trials, change our product labeling or submit additional applications for marketing authorization. If any of these events occurs, our ability to sell such product may be impaired, and we may incur substantial additional expense to comply with regulatory requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to our limited resources and access to capital, we must and have in the past decided to prioritize development of certain product candidates; these decisions may prove to have been wrong and may adversely affect our revenues. Because we have limited resources and access to capital to fund our operations, we must decide which product candidates to pursue and the amount of resources to allocate to each. Our decisions concerning the allocation of research, collaboration, management and financial resources toward particular compounds, product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources away from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay, terminate or collaborate with third parties in respect of certain product development programs may also prove not to be optimal and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. If we make incorrect determinations regarding the market potential of our product candidates or misread trends in the biopharmaceutical industry, in particular for DMD therapies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we may become exposed to liability and substantial expenses in connection with environmental compliance or remediation activities which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operations, including our research, development, testing and manufacturing activities, are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the controlled use, handling, release and disposal of, and the maintenance of a registry for, hazardous materials and biological materials, such as chemical solvents, human cells, carcinogenic compounds, mutagenic compounds and compounds that have a toxic effect on reproduction, laboratory procedures and exposure to blood-borne pathogens. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions. As with other companies engaged in activities similar to ours, we face a risk of environmental liability inherent in our current and historical activities, including liability relating to releases of or exposure to hazardous or biological materials. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are becoming more stringent. We may be required to incur substantial expenses in connection with future environmental compliance or remediation activities, in which case, our production and development efforts may be interrupted or delayed and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our research and development activities could be affected or delayed as a result of possible restrictions on animal testing. Certain laws and regulations require us to test our product candidates on animals before initiating clinical trials involving humans. Animal testing activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting these activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our research and development activities may be interrupted, delayed or become more expensive. 14 Risks related to regulatory approval of our product candidates Our ability to obtain marketing approval for the product candidates for which we have retained commercialization rights depends on obtaining marketing approval for drisapersen and the success of our regulatory strategy for our candidates that target ultra-orphan sub-populations of DMD patients. If either is not successful, we may not obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates. If we are not successful in obtaining marketing approval for drisapersen, or we do so in a way that is limiting with respect to our other DMD product candidates, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidates, and consequently our business and results of operations, could be adversely affected. Our regulatory strategy for obtaining approval for the product candidates to which we have retained commercialization rights depends on the acceptance of our proposed extrapolation principle that if exon skipping works for one AON compound that is shown to be safe and effective, then the principle should to a certain extent also apply to subsequent compounds for rarer sub-populations. Because DMD is a rare disease and our product candidates after drisapersen target smaller sub-populations for which it is less feasible to conduct placebo-controlled studies, our ability to obtain marketing approval may be dependent on regulators’ acceptance of this extrapolation principle. If regulators do not accept this principle, we may be delayed in or prevented from obtaining marketing approval. No exon-skipping therapies using AONs for systemic use have yet been approved or marketed in the European Union, and only one AON for systemic use has been approved in the United States. Our exon-skipping therapy using AONs is intended to correct genetic defects that cause disease in humans, and our current product candidates target DMD. Our compounds have not yet been incorporated into a commercial product and are still in development. To date, no product using AONs for systemic use has been approved for sale in the European Union. In the United States currently only one AON is approved by the FDA for systemic use. Therefore, we are not certain that our technology will meet the applicable safety and efficacy standards of the regulatory authorities. In addition, any regulatory setbacks faced by third parties developing similar compounds could affect the receptiveness of regulators to our compounds. Any failures or setbacks involving our therapy, including adverse effects resulting from the use of this therapy in humans, could have a detrimental impact on our internal product candidate pipeline and our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding these technologies, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. The breakthrough therapy designation for drisapersen may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. In June 2013, drisapersen was granted breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA. The breakthrough therapy designation is a program designed to expedite the development and review of drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions. However, we may not experience a faster development or review process compared to conventional FDA procedures. In addition, there is no guarantee of approval, and the FDA may withdraw our breakthrough therapy designation if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by clinical data. Enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and may affect the prices we may set. In the United States, the European Union and some other foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system. These changes could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any products for which we obtain marketing approval. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the Medicare Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sale prices for physician-administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Cost-reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the Medicare Modernization Act applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. 15 More recently, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Law revises the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may affect our business practices with health care practitioners. We will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Both in the US and in the EU, legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In the area of companion diagnostics, FDA officials indicated in 2010 that the agency planned to issue two guidances in this area. The FDA issued a first draft guidance in July 2011, and the FDA plans to finalize this guidance in 2014. The FDA has yet to issue a second draft guidance, and may decide not to issue a second draft guidance or finalize the existing draft guidance. The FDA’s issuance of a final guidance, or issuance of additional draft guidance, could affect our development of in vitro companion diagnostics and the applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. In the EU, Regulation (EC) 1901/2006, the so called Paediatric Regulation, came into force in January 2007 and introduced considerable changes into the regulatory environment for pediatric medicines. The effects of this regulation are still not fully known. Additionally, an official guideline is being developed which addresses the development of medicinal products for the treatment of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy. This guideline is planned to be adopted during the development of our compounds and may have an effect on the regulatory process for gaining market access in the EU. Our relationships with customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and others play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, primarily in the United States, that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: · the U.S. healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under U.S. healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; · the U.S. False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the U.S. government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; · the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; 16 · the U.S. false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits items or services; · the transparency requirements under the Health Care Reform Law require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests; and · analogous laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from U.S. government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business with are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Risks related to commercialization of our product candidates We operate in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. The biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to discover, develop and obtain marketing approval for new and innovative products on a cost-effective basis and to market them successfully. In doing so, we face and will continue to face intense competition from a variety of businesses, including large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biopharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research institutions in Europe, the United States and other jurisdictions. These organizations may have significantly greater resources than we do and conduct similar research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing of products that compete with our product candidates. We believe that our key competitor in DMD is Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc., or Sarepta, a U.S. Company focused on the development of their lead product candidate eteplirsen. Eteplirsen is currently in Phase II trials in DMD and employs the same exon 51 skipping approach as drisapersen. Sarepta may be in discussions with the FDA for accelerated approval of eteplirsen, which if granted, could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Even without accelerated approval, depending on the overall clinical profile, efficacy and commercialization of eteplirsen, Sarepta may render our development and discovery efforts in the area of DMD uncompetitive. Other companies are also developing alternative therapeutic approaches to the treatment of DMD. These approaches may be used as complementary to our products targeting DMD, but they could also be competitive. The highly competitive nature of and rapid technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries could render our product candidates or our technology obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may, among other things: · develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, less expensive, or more convenient or easier to administer; 17 · obtain quicker regulatory approval; · establish superior proprietary positions; · have access to more manufacturing capacity; · implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; or · form more advantageous strategic alliances. Should any of these factors occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on obtaining and maintaining orphan drug status for market exclusivity. Orphan drug status may not ensure that we have market exclusivity in a particular market, and we could lose orphan market exclusivity if another drug is approved first using the same method of action or demonstrates clinical superiority. All of our DMD compounds have been granted orphan drug status by the FDA and EMA. If drisapersen or our other product candidates were to lose orphan drug status or the marketing exclusivity that it provides, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the United States, a product candidate with orphan drug status qualifies for market exclusivity for seven years after FDA approval, unless a chemically identical competing product for the same indication is proved to be “clinically superior,” that is, safer, more effective or significantly more convenient. Thus, if drisapersen is granted regulatory approval in the United States, the FDA may not approve a competing generic product during the market exclusivity period; however, a chemically dissimilar product such as Sarepta’s eteplirsen would not be affected by drisapersen’s U.S. market exclusivity and could similarly obtain market exclusivity in the United States if it were to receive FDA approval. In Europe, EMA regulations provide ten-year marketing exclusivity in Europe for orphan drugs, subject to certain exceptions, including the demonstration of “clinically relevant superiority” by a similar medicinal product. EMA orphan marketing exclusivity applies to drug products for the same indication that use the same method of action but can be chemically dissimilar. Eteplirsen has been granted orphan drug designation in the European Union. If Sarepta were to obtain marketing approval from the EMA for eteplirsen before drisapersen is approved by the EMA, Sarepta could have the benefit of orphan drug marketing exclusivity to our detriment because both products use the same method of action (exon skipping) for patients with DMD. Drisapersen would have to demonstrate a clinically relevant advantage over eteplirsen (in efficacy, safety and/or pharmacokinetics) in order to defeat such market exclusivity in Europe. If drisapersen is approved by the EMA before eteplirsen, eteplirsen could defeat drisapersen’s market exclusivity in Europe by demonstrating a clinically relevant advantage. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities and health insurers establish adequate reimbursement levels and pricing policies. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. These bodies may deny or revoke the reimbursement status of a given drug product or establish prices for new or existing marketed products at levels that are too low to enable us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Obtaining and maintaining reimbursement status is time-consuming and costly. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. Furthermore, rules and regulations regarding reimbursement change frequently, in some cases at short notice, and we believe that changes in these rules and regulations are likely. In addition, many governments and health insurers are increasingly attempting to manage healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party coverage and reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on the market acceptance of our product candidates and the future revenues we may expect to receive from those products. In addition, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. 18 Our products may not gain market acceptance, in which case we may not be able to generate product revenues, which will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if the EMA, the FDA or any other regulatory authority approves the marketing of any product candidates that we develop on our own or with a collaboration partner, physicians, healthcare providers, patients or the medical community may not accept or use them. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or any profits from operations. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a variety of factors, including: · the timing of market introduction; · the number and clinical profile of competing products; · our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; · the prevalence and severity of any side effects; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · cost-effectiveness; · patient diagnostics and screening infrastructure in each market; · marketing and distribution support; · availability of coverage, reimbursement and adequate payment from health maintenance organizations and other insurers, both public and private; and · other potential advantages over alternative treatment methods. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, this will have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues to provide a satisfactory, or any, return on our investments. Even if some products achieve market acceptance, the market may prove not to be large enough to allow us to generate significant revenues. Adverse events in the field of RNA modulation therapy could damage public perception of our product candidates and negatively affect our business. The commercial success of our products will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of RNA modulation therapy for the treatment of human diseases. Adverse events in clinical trials of our product candidates or in clinical trials of others developing RNA-modulating products and the resulting publicity, as well as any other adverse events in the field of RNA modulation therapy that may occur in the future, could result in a decrease in demand for any products that we may develop. For example, a recently published report described a case of renal damage in a healthy volunteer enrolled in a clinical trial sponsored by Santaris Pharma A/S. The trial used a type of so-called locked-acid AON compound that primarily targets the kidney, intestines and liver and works by blocking messenger RNA for the enzyme PCSK9. If public perception is influenced by claims that RNA modulation therapy is unsafe, our products may not be accepted by the general public or the medical community. Future adverse events in RNA modulation therapy or the biopharmaceutical industry could also result in greater governmental regulation, stricter labeling requirements and potential regulatory delays in the testing or approvals of our products. Any increased scrutiny could delay or increase the costs of obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates. We have never commercialized a product candidate before and may lack the necessary expertise, personnel and resources to successfully commercialize our products on our own or together with suitable partners. We have never commercialized a product candidate, and we currently have no sales force, marketing or distribution capabilities. We will have to develop our own sales, marketing and supply organization or outsource these activities to a third party. 19 Factors that may affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates on our own include recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel, obtaining access to or persuading adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our drug candidates and other unforeseen costs associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. Developing a sales and marketing organization will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay the launch of our product candidates. We may not be able to build an effective sales and marketing organization. If we are unable to build our own distribution and marketing capabilities or to find suitable partners for the commercialization of our product candidates, we may not generate revenues from them or be able to reach or sustain profitability. Risks related to our dependence on third parties GSK may not fulfill its obligations under the termination agreement, which could delay or terminate the development and commercialization of our product candidates and substantially harm our business . The termination of our collaboration with GSK is governed by a termination agreement. Among other things, the termination agreement requires GSK to transfer to us certain data, inventory, regulatory filings, sponsorships, clinical study reports and material agreements relating to the development of our products. The termination agreement also requires GSK to indemnify us for certain breaches of its obligations under the agreement. If GSK were to breach the termination agreement, we cannot be certain that: · we would have the resources to pursue our claims against GSK; · arbitrators would find in our favor and grant us an arbitration award; · delays in recovery would not arise during the arbitration process that could irreparably harm the commercialization and development of our products; · we would be able to prove the extent of the damages we incurred or will incur as a result of GSK’s breach; · any recovery we received from GSK would be sufficient to compensate us for the loss their breach caused us; and · GSK would pay any arbitration award rendered against it without further litigation or that we would have the resources to pursue enforcement of any arbitration award. The data, inventory, regulatory filings, clinical trial sponsorships, clinical study reports and material agreements that the termination agreement obligates GSK to provide to us are critical to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Therefore, if GSK does not transfer these items to us per the terms of the termination agreement or we are unable to recover from GSK any of the losses any breach would cause us, our business could be substantially harmed. If we fail to maintain our current strategic relationship with LUMC our business, commercialization prospects and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We have an exclusive worldwide license from Leiden University Medical Center, or LUMC, for the application of LUMC’s proprietary RNA modulation exon-skipping technology to develop treatments for DMD, other neuromuscular disorders and indications outside the field of neuromuscular disorders. These intellectual property rights have been the basis of our research so far and the development of treatments targeting DMD. The continuation of a good relationship with LUMC is essential for our business prospects. If our relationship with LUMC were to deteriorate or LUMC were to challenge our use of its intellectual property or our calculations of the payments we owe under our agreement, our business, financial condition, commercialization prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to enter into new strategic relationships our business, financial condition, commercialization prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our product development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Therefore, in addition to our relationship with LUMC, for some of our product candidates, we may decide to enter into new collaborations with pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates. 20 We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may also be restricted under existing and future collaboration agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with other potential collaborators. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. If we do enter into a new collaboration agreement, we could be subject to the following risks, each of which may materially harm our business, commercialization prospects and financial condition: · we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that the collaboration partner devotes to the product development program; · the collaboration partner may experience financial difficulties; · we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing, distribution and intellectual property rights; · a collaboration partner could move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with third parties, including our competitors; or · business combinations or significant changes in a collaboration partner’s business strategy may adversely affect our willingness to complete our obligations under any arrangement. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development. In the past we relied on GSK to conduct clinical trials for the DMD compounds it had licensed from us under our collaboration. Going forward we will rely on other third parties, including CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct significant portions of our preclinical and clinical trials. Although we will oversee these activities to ensure compliance with our quality standards, budgets and timelines, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trials than potentially would be the case if we relied entirely upon our own staff. Such third parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting the management of the clinical trials. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of third parties may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay the trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or even impossible. In addition, it may be very challenging, and in some cases impossible, to find a replacement service provider that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. In addition, if such third parties fail to comply with regulations regarding clinical trials and laboratory practices and other regulations of the EMA, FDA or other regulatory authorities, we may experience serious delays to our clinical trials, have to suspend clinical trials or lose the regulatory approval for a specific product. Any such failure could give rise to a material interruption in the development of the product and have a material adverse effect on our commercial potential. We currently rely on third-party suppliers and other third parties for production of our product candidates and our dependence on these third parties may impair the advancement of our research and development programs and the development of our product candidates. Currently, we develop and manufacture the drug product for our initial preclinical studies using standardized manufacturing processes in our own laboratories. We currently rely on and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the supply of raw materials and to manufacture drug supplies for clinical trials and commercial quantities of our products and drug candidates. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on such third parties. 21 Reliance on third-party providers may expose us to more risk than if we were to manufacture product candidates ourselves. We are obliged to work with manufacturing companies and third party suppliers that are licensed by the EMA, the FDA or other regulatory authorities and that comply with EMA, FDA or other regulatory authorities’ laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these laws, regulations and applicable cGMP standards and other laws and regulations, such as those related to environmental health and safety matters. Any failure to achieve and maintain compliance with these laws, regulations and standards could subject us to the risk that we may have to suspend the manufacturing of our product candidates or that obtained approvals could be revoked, which would adversely affect our business and reputation. Furthermore, third-party providers may breach existing agreements they have with us because of factors beyond our control. They may also terminate or refuse to renew their agreement because of their own financial difficulties or business priorities, at a time that is costly or otherwise inconvenient for us. If we were unable to find adequate replacement or another acceptable solution in time, our clinical trials could be delayed or our commercial activities could be harmed. While we generally contract with multiple suppliers of raw materials, drug substances, drug product formulation and filling, for each specific AON there is only one contractor for drug substance manufacture and one contractor for drug product manufacture. In addition, we have only a single contractor for the packaging and distribution of product for clinical trials. While we believe we have limited the risk of interruption of production delays because our manufacturing process is highly standardized and therefore we believe that a contractor for one AON product candidate could be brought online to manufacture another AON product candidate, we may incur delays in qualifying an alternative manufacturer for a new compound. Any such delay could delay our clinical trials or have an adverse impact on any commercial activities. In addition, the fact that we are dependent on our suppliers and other third parties for the manufacture, filling, storage and distribution of our product candidates means that we are subject to the risk that the products may have manufacturing defects that we have limited ability to prevent or control. The sale of products containing such defects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in the costs and expenses of components or raw materials may also adversely influence our business, financial condition and results of operations. Supply sources could be interrupted from time to time and, if interrupted, that supplies could be resumed (whether in part or in whole) within a reasonable timeframe and at an acceptable cost or at all. Risks related to intellectual property and information technology Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to gain access to relevant intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our licensing partners terminate our rights to license in relevant intellectual property rights. We currently rely, and may in the future rely, on certain intellectual property rights licensed from third parties to protect our technology. In particular, we have entered into a collaboration arrangement with LUMC for the reciprocal licensing of our and LUMC’s individual and joint intellectual property rights in relation to certain patent rights and know-how rights, which have been the basis of our research and development of treatment targeting DMD. Pursuant to this agreement with LUMC, we have an exclusive worldwide license for the exploitation of key intellectual property rights in this respect. Our intellectual property portfolio for DMD consists of patents and patent applications licensed from LUMC, patents and patent applications for which we and LUMC are joint owners and patents and patent applications that we own. LUMC retains full ownership of certain patents and patent applications which we have licensed under the agreement. We have the responsibility to maintain and control the intellectual property portfolio licensed from LUMC, however, the licensed rights may not be adequately maintained by LUMC. In addition, our licensed rights may be suspended, terminated or otherwise lost in consequence of a breach of the agreement with LUMC or due to other relevant facts and circumstances such as insolvency of the licensor. Our ability to comply with our contractual obligations towards LUMC may be affected by factors that we can only partially influence or control. If LUMC were to terminate the license, we would be prevented from continuing our use of this technology in clinical trials or, if our products are approved for marketing, from using this technology in products that could be sold commercially. The loss of rights under this license could preclude us from further developing, commercializing and marketing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 We rely on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our product candidates and technologies, the enforcement, defense and maintenance of which may be challenging and costly. Failure to enforce or protect these rights adequately could harm our ability to compete and impair our business. Our commercial success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining patents and other forms of intellectual property rights for our product candidates, methods used to manufacture those products and the methods for treating patients using those products, or on licensing in such rights. Failure to protect or to obtain, maintain or extend adequate patent and other intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and product candidates. Issued patents covering one or more of our products could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court. To protect our competitive position, we may from time to time need to engage in litigation or participate in adversary administrative proceedings in order to enforce or defend any patents or other intellectual property rights owned by or licensed to us, or to determine or challenge the scope or validity of patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, in 2009, AVI Biopharma Inc. (now Sarepta) filed an opposition against EP ’249, one of our patents, with the European Patent Office, or EPO, requesting revocation of the patent as granted, alleging, among other things, lack of novelty, inventive step and sufficiency of disclosure. The EPO Opposition Division, presiding in oral proceedings on November 16, 2011 in Munich, Germany, maintained the EP ’249 patent in an amended form. We believe that the patent as maintained in amended form by the EPO Opposition Division still provides protection for our lead product candidate drisapersen. We and Sarepta both had appealed the written decision of the EPO. Written submissions were filed by each party on August 23rd, 2013 and on January 8th 2014. In a next step the Board of Appeal of the EPO should provide its preliminary opinion on the Appeal and summon parties to oral proceedings in Munich. For additional information please see “Business—Intellectual property—Opposition proceedings against EP ’249.” In addition, we are facing possible administrative challenges involving our patents in the form of interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). The interferences, if formally declared by the PTO, will determine who was first to invent these compounds and therefore who is entitled to the patent claiming them. In the course of interference proceedings, all parties are called upon to submit evidence of the date when they conceived of their respective inventions. Patent interferences are typically complex, highly-contested legal proceedings that can be expensive and prolonged and can cause significant delay in the issuance of patents. In one instance we have taken steps to precipitate an interference proceeding by filing a suggestion for interference and a patent application with claims identical to those of a patent that is owned by Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, University of London. Our reason for taking this step is that we believe that our rights to the invention are superior to those of Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, University of London because we believe that the inventors identified in our patent application conceived of the invention before Linda Popplewell, the inventor named in U.S. patent no. 8,324,37. The patent and patent application in question involve exon 45. Another potential interference proceeding, involving exon 53, is one that is likely to arise because the University of Western Australia (which has licensed U.S. patent no. 8,455,636 to Sarepta) has taken steps to initiate a proceeding involving our patent application U.S.S.N. 11/233,495, as well as a patent owned by Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, University of London. Here too we believe that we have superior rights because of an earlier invention date. In addition, there may be a basis for an interference proceeding involving one of our patent applications with exon 51. If the administrative law judge conducting an interference proceeding determines that another party is entitled to the contested patent claims, we may be required to obtain a license to proceed with the US marketing of the product utilizing the technology that is claimed (which may the case with our PRO045 or PRO053 products). There can be no assurance that such a license will be available, in which case we could be prevented from marketing the relevant product in the United States. Any determination of the judge can be challenged by either party in U.S. Federal court. We could incur substantial cost in defending our patents in these proceedings. If the outcome of either proceeding is unfavorable, our business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. As enforcement of intellectual property rights is difficult, unpredictable and expensive, we may fail in enforcing our rights—in which case our competitors may be permitted to use our technology without being required to pay us any license fees. In addition, however, litigation involving our patents carries the risk that one or more of our patents will be held invalid (in whole or in part, on a claim-by-claim basis) or held unenforceable. Such an adverse court ruling could allow third parties to commercialize our products or our platform technology, and then compete directly with us, without payment to us. 23 If we were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our products, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States or in Europe, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, for example, lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on one or more of our products or certain aspects of our platform technology. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. Patents and other intellectual property rights also will not protect our technology if competitors design around our protected technology without infringing our patents or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights of third parties could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates, such that we could be required to litigate or obtain licenses from third parties in order to develop or market our product candidates. Such litigation or licenses could be costly or not available on commercially reasonable terms. Our competitive position may suffer if patents issued to third parties or other third party intellectual property rights cover our products or elements thereof, our manufacture or uses relevant to our development plans. In such cases, we may not be in a position to develop or commercialize products or drug candidates unless we successfully pursue litigation to nullify or invalidate the third party intellectual property right concerned, or enter into a license agreement with the intellectual property right holder, if available on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we are aware of issued patents and pending patent applications held by third parties that may be construed as covering some of our product candidates, in particular with respect to PRO045 or PRO053, and, as described earlier, we currently expect interference proceeding to arise with respect to the patents covering these products, and believe it is possible that an interference proceeding involving a patent applicable to PRO051 may also occur. We believe that if such patents or patent applications (if issued as currently pending) were asserted against us, we would have defenses against such claims, including defenses of patent invalidity and unenforceability. However, if such defenses were not successful and such patents were successfully asserted against us such that they are found to be valid and enforceable, and infringed by our product candidates, unless we obtain a license to such patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we could be prevented from continuing to develop or commercialize our products. We could also be required to pay substantial damages. It is also possible that we failed to identify relevant patents or applications. For example, U.S. applications filed before November 29, 2000 and certain U.S. applications filed after that date that will not be filed outside the United States remain confidential until patents issue. Patent applications in the United States and elsewhere are published approximately 18 months after the earliest filing for which priority is claimed, with such earliest filing date being commonly referred to as the priority date. Therefore, patent applications covering our products or platform technology could have been filed by others without our knowledge. Additionally, pending patent applications which have been published can, subject to certain limitations, be later amended in a manner that could cover our platform technologies, our products or the use of our products. Third party intellectual property right holders, including our competitors, may actively bring infringement claims against us. The granting of orphan drug status in respect of any of our product candidates does not guarantee our freedom to operate and is separate from our risk of possible infringement of third parties’ intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully settle or otherwise resolve such infringement claims. If we are unable to successfully settle future claims on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to engage or continue costly, unpredictable and time-consuming litigation and may be prevented from or experience substantial delays in marketing our products. If we fail in any such dispute, in addition to being forced to pay damages, we or our licensees may be temporarily or permanently prohibited from commercializing any of our product candidates that are held to be infringing. We might, if possible, also be forced to redesign drug candidates so that we no longer infringe the third party intellectual property rights. Any of these events, even if we were ultimately to prevail, could require us to divert substantial financial and management resources that we would otherwise be able to devote to our business. 24 Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, we could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. We enjoy only limited geographical protection with respect to certain patents and may face difficulties in certain jurisdictions, which may diminish the value of intellectual property rights in those jurisdictions. We generally file our first patent application (i.e. priority filing) at the European Patent Office (EPO). International applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, are usually filed within twelve months after the priority filing. Based on the PCT filing, national and regional patent applications may be filed in the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Canada and all European Patent Convention, or EPC, member states by filing at the EPO and, depending on the individual case, also in any or all of, inter alia, China, India, Singapore and Israel. We have so far not filed for patent protection in all national and regional jurisdictions where such protection may be available. In addition, we may decide to abandon national and regional patent applications before grant. Finally, the grant proceeding of each national/regional patent is an independent proceeding which may lead to situations in which applications might in some jurisdictions be refused by the relevant registration authorities, while granted by others. It is also quite common that depending on the country, the scope of patent protection may vary for the same drug candidate and/or technology. The laws of some jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States and the European Union, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in such jurisdictions. If we or our licensors encounter difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, the intellectual property rights important for our business in such jurisdictions, the value of these rights may be diminished and we may face additional competition from others in those jurisdictions. Many countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of such patent. If we or any of our licensors is forced to grant a license to third parties with respect to any patents relevant to our business, our competitive position may be impaired and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative: · Others may be able to make compounds that are the same as or similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or have exclusively licensed. · We or our licensors or any future strategic partners might not have been the first to conceive or reduce to practice the inventions covered by the issued patent or pending patent application that we own or have exclusively licensed. · We or our licensors or any future strategic partners might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our inventions. 25 · Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights. · It is possible that our pending patent applications will not lead to issued patents. · Issued patents that we own or have exclusively licensed may not provide us with any competitive advantage, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors. · Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets. · We may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. · The patents of third parties may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in patent laws or patent jurisprudence could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological complexity and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the America Invents Act (AIA) has been recently enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes to the U.S. patent system. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Similarly, the complexity and uncertainty of European patent laws has also increased in recent years. For example, the EPC was amended in April 2010 by limiting the time permitted for filing divisional applications. In addition, the EP patent system is relatively stringent in the type of amendments that are allowed during prosecution. These changes could limit our ability to obtain new patents in the future that may be important for our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and protect other proprietary information. We consider proprietary trade secrets and/or confidential know-how and unpatented know-how to be important to our business. We may rely on trade secrets and/or confidential know-how to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is believed to be of limited value. However, trade secrets and/or confidential know-how are difficult to maintain as confidential. To protect this type of information against disclosure or appropriation by competitors, our policy is to require our employees, consultants, contractors and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. However, current or former employees, consultants, contractors and advisers may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party obtained illegally and is using trade secrets and/or confidential know-how is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. The enforceability of confidentiality agreements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secrets and/or confidential know-how trade protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and may even apply for patent protection in respect of the same. If successful in obtaining such patent protection, our competitors could limit our use of our trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. Under certain circumstances and to guarantee our freedom to operate, we may also decide to publish some know-how to prevent others from obtaining patent rights covering such know-how. 26 Our information technology systems could face serious disruptions that could adversely affect our business. Our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems, including corporate firewalls, servers, leased lines and connection to the Internet, face the risk of systemic failure that could disrupt our operations. A significant disruption in the availability of our information technology and other internal infrastructure systems could cause interruptions in our collaborations with our partners and delays in our research and development work. Risks related to employee matters and managing growth Our future growth and ability to compete depends on retaining our key personnel and recruiting additional qualified personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, scientific and technical personnel, many of whom have substantial experience with or been instrumental for us and our unique RNA modulation therapy and related technologies. These key management individuals include the members of our management board consisting of Hans Schikan, our Chief Executive Officer; Berndt Modig, our Chief Financial Officer; Giles Campion, our Chief Medical Officer and Senior Vice President Research and Development; and Luc Dochez, our Chief Business Officer and Senior Vice President Business Development. The key members of our management team include Larry Bell, our Vice President of Regulatory Affairs; Judith van Deutekom, our Vice President Drug Discovery; Tina Flatau, our Vice President Alliances and Project Management; Paul van Hagen, our Senior Director Finance and Control; Richard Holslag, our Vice President Manufacturing; Sjef de Kimpe, our Vice President Early Drug Development; and Allison Morgan, our Vice President Clinical Development. The loss of key managers and senior scientists could delay our research and development activities. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be difficult for us to implement business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our ordinary shares The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The share price of publicly traded emerging biopharmaceutical and drug discovery and development companies has been highly volatile and is likely to remain highly volatile in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by us, strategic partners, or competitors; · delays in entering into strategic relationships with respect to development and/or commercialization of our product candidates or entry into strategic relationships on terms that are not deemed to be favorable to us; · technological innovations or commercial product introductions by us or competitors; · changes in government regulations; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; · public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our product candidates; · financing or other corporate transactions; · publication of research reports or comments by securities or industry analysts; · general market conditions in the pharmaceutical industry or in the economy as a whole; or · other events and factors beyond our control. 27 For example, on September 20, 2013, our share price dropped 70% following the announcement that the Phase III clinical trial of drisapersen failed to meet the primary endpoint of a statistically significant improvement in 6MWD compared to a placebo. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of companies’ stock, including our, regardless of actual operating performance. Certain of our principal shareholders and members of our management board own a majority of our ordinary shares and as a result will be able to exercise significant control over us, and your interests may conflict with the interests of such shareholders. Our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors in the aggregate hold 86% of our ordinary shares. Depending on the level of attendance at our general meetings of shareholders, these shareholders may be in a position to determine the outcome of decisions taken at any such general meeting. Any shareholder or group of shareholders controlling more than 50% of the capital present and voting at our general meetings of shareholders may control any shareholder resolution requiring a simple majority, including the appointment of supervisory board members, certain decisions relating to our capital structure, the approval of certain significant corporate transactions and amendments to our Articles of Association. Among other consequences, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might therefore negatively affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial number of our ordinary shares could adversely affect the price of the shares and dilute shareholders. Future sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares, or the perception that such sales will occur, could cause a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares Provisions of our Articles of Association or Dutch corporate law might deter acquisition bids for us that might be considered favorable and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then management board and supervisory board. Certain provisions of our Articles of Association may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our management board or supervisory board. These provisions include: the authorization of a class of preference shares that may be issued to a friendly party; staggered four-year terms of our supervisory board members; a provision that our management board and supervisory board members may only be removed by the general meeting of shareholders by a two-thirds majority of votes cast representing more than 50% of our outstanding share capital (unless the removal was proposed by the supervisory board); and a requirement that certain matters, including an amendment of our Articles of Association, may only be brought to our shareholders for a vote upon a proposal by our management board that has been approved by our supervisory board. Our anti-takeover provision may prevent a beneficial change of control. We have adopted an anti-takeover measure pursuant to which our management board may, subject to supervisory board approval but without shareholder approval, issue (or grant the right to acquire) cumulative preferred shares. We may issue an amount of cumulative preferred shares up to 100% of our issued capital immediately prior to the issuance of such cumulative preferred shares. In such event, the cumulative preferred shares (or right to acquire cumulative preferred shares) will be issued to a separate, newly established foundation. The cumulative preferred shares will be issued to the foundation for their nominal value, of which only 25% will be due upon issuance. The voting rights of our shares are based on nominal value and as we expect our shares to trade substantially in excess of nominal value, cumulative preferred shares issued at nominal value can obtain significant voting power for a substantially reduced price and thus be used as a defensive measure. These cumulative preferred shares will have both a liquidation and dividend preference over our ordinary shares and will accrue cash dividends at a fixed rate. The management board may issue these cumulative preferred shares to protect us from influences that do not serve our best interests and threaten to undermine our continuity, independence and identity. These influences may include a third-party acquiring a significant percentage of our ordinary shares, the announcement of a public offer for our ordinary shares, other concentration of control over our ordinary shares or any other form of pressure on us to alter our strategic policies. If the management board determines to issue the cumulative preferred shares to such a foundation, the foundation’s articles of association will provide that it will act to serve the best interests of us, our associated business and all parties connected to us, by opposing any influences that conflict with these interests and threaten to undermine our continuity, independence and identity. This foundation will be structured to operate independently of us. 28 We have broad discretion in the use of our cash on hand and may not use it effectively. As of December 31, 2013 we had €82.2 million cash on hand. Our management will have broad discretion in the use of such cash and could spend it in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our ordinary shares. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline and delay the development of our product candidates. Pending their use, we may invest our cash in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends since our incorporation. Even if future operations lead to significant levels of distributable profits, we currently intend that any earnings will be reinvested in our business and that dividends will not be paid until we have an established revenue stream to support continuing dividends. Payment of future dividends to shareholders will in addition effectively be at the discretion of the management board, subject to the approval of the supervisory board after taking into account various factors including our business prospects, cash requirements, financial performance and new product development. In addition, payment of future dividends may be made only if our shareholders’ equity exceeds the sum of our paid-in and called-up share capital plus the reserves required to be maintained by Dutch law or by our Articles of Association. Accordingly, investors cannot rely on dividend income from our ordinary shares and any returns on an investment in our ordinary shares will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. Holders of our ordinary shares outside the Netherlands may not be able to exercise preemptive rights. In the event of an increase in our share capital, holders of our ordinary shares are generally entitled under Dutch law to full preemptive rights, unless these rights are excluded either by a resolution of the general meeting of shareholders, or by a resolution of the management board (if the management board has been designated by the general meeting of shareholders for this purpose). Certain holders of our ordinary shares outside the Netherlands, in particular U.S. holders of our ordinary shares, may not be able to exercise preemptive rights unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) is declared effective with respect to our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap). Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our management board and supervisory board may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our management board and supervisory board are required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. We are not obligated to and do not comply with all the best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. This may affect your rights as a shareholder. As a Dutch company we are subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, or DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for management boards, supervisory boards, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including the Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market, or Nasdaq. The principles and best practice provisions apply to our management board and our supervisory board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and our obligations to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). We do not comply with all the best practice provisions of the DCGC. This may affect your rights as a shareholder and you may not have the same level of protection as a shareholder in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC. 29 Claims of U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands. Substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. The majority of our managing directors and supervisory directors reside outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them or us in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. The United States and the Netherlands currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. Consequently, a final judgment for payment given by a court in the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon U.S. securities laws, would not automatically be recognized or enforceable in the Netherlands. In order to obtain a judgment which is enforceable in the Netherlands, the party in whose favor a final and conclusive judgment of the U.S. court has been rendered will be required to file its claim with a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands. Such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment rendered by the U.S. court. If and to the extent that the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the U.S. court has been based on grounds which are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the court of the Netherlands will, in principle, give binding effect to the judgment of the U.S. court, unless such judgment contravenes principles of public policy of the Netherlands. Dutch courts may deny the recognition and enforcement of punitive damages or other awards. Moreover, a Dutch court may reduce the amount of damages granted by a U.S. court and recognize damages only to the extent that they are necessary to compensate actual losses or damages. Enforcement and recognition of judgments of U.S. courts in the Netherlands are solely governed by the provisions of the Dutch Civil Procedure Code. Based on the lack of a treaty as described above, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce against us or members of our management board or supervisory board, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. domestic public company. We report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we are subject to Dutch laws and regulations with regard to such matters and intend to furnish quarterly financial information to the SEC, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the Regulation Fair Disclosure, aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. As a result of the above, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. As a foreign private issuer and as permitted by the listing requirements of Nasdaq, we rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. We are a foreign private issuer. As a result, in accordance with the listing requirements of Nasdaq, we rely on home country governance requirements and certain exemptions thereunder rather than relying on the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. In accordance with Dutch law and generally accepted business practices, our articles of association do not provide quorum requirements generally applicable to general meetings of shareholders. To this extent, our practice varies from the requirement of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5620(c), which requires an issuer to provide in its bylaws for a generally applicable quorum, and that such quorum may not be less than one-third of the outstanding voting stock. Although we must provide shareholders 30 with an agenda and other relevant documents for the general meeting of shareholders, Dutch law does not have a regulatory regime for the solicitation of proxies and the solicitation of proxies is not a generally accepted business practice in the Netherlands, thus our practice will vary from the requirement of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5620(b). In addition, we have opted out of shareholder approval requirements for the issuance of securities in connection with certain events such as the acquisition of stock or assets of another company, the establishment of or amendments to equity-based compensation plans for employees, a change of control of us and certain private placements. To this extent, our practice varies from the requirements of Nasdaq Rule 5635, which generally requires an issuer to obtain shareholder approval for the issuance of securities in connection with such events. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to these Nasdaq requirements. We may lose our foreign private issuer status which would then require us to comply with the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime and cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are a foreign private issuer and therefore we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We may no longer be a foreign private issuer as of June 30, 2014 which would require us to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers as of January 1, 2015. In order to maintain our current status as a foreign private issuer, either (a) a majority of our ordinary shares must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the United States or (b)(i) a majority of our executive officers or directors may not be United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50 percent of our assets cannot be located in the United States and (iii) our business must be administered principally outside the United States. If we lost this status, we would be required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. We may also be required to make changes in our corporate governance practices in accordance with various SEC and Nasdaq rules. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher than the cost we would incur as a foreign private issuer. As a result, we expect that a loss of foreign private issuer status would increase our legal and financial compliance costs and would make some activities highly time consuming and costly. We also expect that if we were required to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, it would make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our supervisory board. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies” will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As an “emerging growth company” we are required to report only two years of financial results and selected financial data compared to three and five years, respectively, for comparable data reported by other public companies. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 (the end of our second fiscal quarter) before that time, in which case we would no longer be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31 (our fiscal year end). We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and the price of our ordinary shares may be more volatile. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. 31 Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, the price of our ordinary shares and our trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our ordinary shares could decrease, which might cause the price of our ordinary shares and trading volume to decline. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) in 2014 or any future taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year, this could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), we will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which, after the application of certain “look-through” rules with respect to subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income consists of “passive income,” or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, “passive income.” Passive income generally includes interest, dividends, rents, certain non-active royalties and capital gains. Whether we will be a PFIC in any year depends on the composition of our income and assets, and the relative fair market value of our assets from time to time, which has varied, and we expect will continue to vary, substantially over time. While we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our 2013 taxable year, because (i) we currently own a substantial amount of passive assets, including cash, and (ii) the value of our assets, including our intangible assets, that generate non-passive income for PFIC purposes, is uncertain and has varied, and we expect will continue to vary, substantially over time, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in 2014 or any future taxable years. Based on the current value of our intangible assets that is implied by the recent sales prices for our ordinary shares reported by NASDAQ, U.S. investors should be aware that we may be a PFIC in 2014, although a determination of whether we are a PFIC for 2014 will depend on the composition of our income and the composition and relative values of our assets, including our intangible assets, over the entire year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds ordinary shares, the U.S. investor may be subject to adverse tax consequences, including (i) the treatment of all or a portion of any gain on disposition as ordinary income, (ii) the application of a deferred interest charge on such gain and the receipt of certain dividends and (iii) compliance with certain reporting requirements. 32 