Risk Factors” section. We face the additional risk that our partners may not meet their financial obligations or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. Therefore, we depend heavily on our partners in each joint venture to both cooperate and make mutually acceptable decisions regarding the conduct of the business and affairs of the joint venture and ensure that they, and the joint venture, fulfill their respective obligations to us and to third-parties. If the partners in our joint ventures do not provide such cooperation or fulfill those obligations due to their financial condition, strategic business interests (which may be contrary to ours) or otherwise, we may be required to spend additional resources and suffer losses, each of which could be significant. Moreover, our ability to recoup such expenditures and losses by exercising remedies against such partners may be limited due to potential legal defenses they may have, their financial condition and other circumstances. Furthermore, the termination of a joint venture may also give rise to lawsuits and legal costs. Although our joint ventures do not have outstanding debt, the partners may agree to incur debt to fund partnership and joint venture operations in the future. If our joint ventures incur indebtedness in the future, the lenders may require us and our partners to provide guarantees and indemnities to the lenders with respect to the joint venture’s debt, which may be triggered under certain conditions when the joint venture fails to fulfill its obligations under its loan agreements. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Certain expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s federal and, in some cases, state income taxes subject to various limitations under current tax law. Various proposals have been publicly discussed to limit mortgage interest deductions and repeal or otherwise limit the taxable income gain exclusion attributable to the sale of a principal residence. If the federal government or a state government changes its income tax laws, including, as some lawmakers have proposed, to eliminate or substantially modify these income tax deductions without offsetting provisions, then the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially for many of our potential buyers. These circumstances could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes. 24 Table of Contents Increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, could adversely affect the ability of potential buyers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. Fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open spaces, road improvements, and/or provide low and moderate income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by natural disasters. The Florida climate presents risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, wildfires, soil subsidence and other weather-related and geological events, including sinkholes, or other natural disasters or similar events occur, our business may be adversely affected by requiring us to delay or halt construction, experience shortages in labor and raw materials, or to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects under construction, unsold homes and recreational amenities (e.g., golf courses, marinas, etc.). There is also the possibility of environmental disasters occurring, such as oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico, which could result in costly repairs to our properties in the affected areas and negatively impact the demand for new homes in those areas and otherwise adversely affect our business operations in the affected areas. There is also growing concern from the scientific community that an increase in average temperatures globally due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities will cause significant changes in global weather patterns and, as a result, increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. In the future, certain losses may not be insurable and a sizable uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our business. Additionally, due to the concentrated nature of our operations, natural disasters affecting more than one of our Florida markets could result in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of operations. See “—Our geographic concentration in Florida could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in Florida should decline.” We may suffer uninsured losses or suffer material losses in excess of insurance limits. We could suffer physical damage to property and liabilities resulting in losses that may not be fully compensated by insurance. Additionally, certain types of risks, such as personal injury claims, may be, or may become in the future, either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may not be currently or in the future covered by our insurance policies. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur a financial loss or lose capital invested in the affected property as well as anticipated future income from that property. Moreover, we have a number of properties in Florida that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. While we generally carry windstorm and flood coverage with respect to these properties, the policies contain per occurrence deductibles and aggregate loss limits and sub-limits that limit the amount of proceeds that we may be able to recover. Additionally, we could be liable to repair damage or incur liabilities caused by uninsured or excluded risks. We may be liable for any debt or other financial obligations related to the affected property. Material losses or liabilities in excess of insurance proceeds may occur in the future. We act as a title agent and are subject to audits and contractual obligations due to our title insurance operations. We act as a title agent for underwriters through our subsidiary, Watermark Realty, Inc. The title insurance industry is closely regulated by the Florida Department of Financial Services, Office of Insurance Regulation, which issues regulations that impose licensing and other compliance requirements on our title insurance business and require that we offer title insurance products in accordance with a promulgated rate schedule. As a result of our position as a title agent, we are subject to regular and routine audits by title insurance underwriters for which we issue title policies. These audits review our compliance and risk management pertaining to escrow procedures, as well as our regulatory and underwriting procedures. Additionally, we are subject to compliance with the procedures imposed by our agency contracts with underwriters. Title agencies are subject to liability in the event of any breach thereof arising from deviations from the agency contract requirements, including indemnifying the underwriter for claims. Our real estate brokerage business is generally subject to intense competition. We compete with national and regional independent real estate organizations, franchisees of national and regional real estate franchisors, discount brokerages and smaller niche companies competing in local areas. Real estate brokers compete for sales and marketing business primarily on the basis of the services offered, reputation, utilization of technology, personal contacts and brokerage commission. The real estate brokerage industry has minimal barriers to entry for new participants, including participants pursuing non-traditional methods of marketing real estate, such as Internet-based brokerage or brokers who discount their commissions. Discount brokers have had varying degrees of success and, while they were negatively impacted by the most recent downturn in the residential housing market, they may adjust their business model and increase their market presence in the future. Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for our company-owned brokerage business by establishing relationships with independent real estate agents and/or buyers and sellers of homes. 25 Table of Contents We also compete for the services of qualified licensed independent real estate agents. Some of the firms competing for real estate agents use a different model to compensate their agents, whereby agents are compensated for the revenue generated by other agents that they recruit to those firms. This model may be appealing to certain agents and hinder our ability to attract and retain those agents. The ability of our brokerage offices to retain independent real estate agents is generally subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions that they receive and their perception of brand value. Competition for real estate agents could reduce our commissions, after giving effect to the split with independent real estate agents, and possibly increase our marketing costs. Our real estate brokerage business does business as Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Florida Realty pursuant to a franchise agreement. Our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the franchise agreement granting us the right to use the brand name were terminated. Watermark Realty, Inc. currently does business as Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Florida Realty pursuant to a franchise agreement, as amended, with BHH Affiliates, LLC (the “Berkshire Agreement”) that became effective during October 2013 and made us one of the first franchisees to operate under the new Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices brand name. We believe that this brand strengthens our ability to take advantage of the improving resale home market. Pursuant to the Berkshire Agreement, we currently have (i) an exclusive right to provide real estate brokerage services using the brand name in Broward, Lee, Manatee, Martin and Sarasota Counties, as well as in portions of Collier, Miami-Dade, Palm Beach and Saint Lucie Counties, and (ii) a limited exclusive right to provide real estate brokerage services using the brand name in Orange, Osceola and Seminole Counties. All such counties are in Florida. We pay annual and monthly royalties and fees based on gross revenues. Under the Berkshire Agreement, we must comply with operating standards and terms and conditions imposed by the franchisor and must obtain its consent to open new operating locations or operate other businesses within the insurance or real estate brokerage industries. The Berkshire Agreement permits the franchisor to terminate the agreement in certain cases, such as a failure by us to meet certain obligations thereunder, bankruptcy, abandonment of the franchise, assignment of the franchise without the franchisor’s consent or material violations of any federal, state or local laws and regulations. If the Berkshire Agreement terminates due to our failure to comply with its terms and conditions, we may be liable for damages. Additionally, a termination of the Berkshire Agreement for any reason without a suitable replacement brand name in a timely fashion, could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operation. Independent real estate agents that work for our real estate brokerage business could take actions that could harm our business and results of operations. The real estate agents that work for our real estate brokerage business are independent contractors and, as such, are not our employees, and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day activities. If these independent real estate agents were to provide a diminished quality of service to buyers, our image and reputation may suffer materially, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Additionally, independent real estate agents may engage or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts such as, for example, violating the anti-discrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Such acts or the accusation of such acts could harm our image, reputation and goodwill. Our real estate brokerage business must comply with the requirements governing the licensing and conduct of real estate brokerage and brokerage-related businesses in the jurisdictions in which we do business. We are subject to various laws and regulations containing general standards for and limitations on the conduct of real estate brokers and sales associates, including those relating to the licensing of brokers and sales associates, administration of escrow funds, collection of commissions, advertising and consumer disclosures. Under Florida law, real estate brokers are responsible for the conduct of their brokerage business, including the supervision of their sales associates. Although real estate sales agents historically have been classified as independent contractors, the real estate industry has increasingly faced worker classification challenges. Moreover, rules and interpretations of federal and state employment laws and regulations could change, including those governing employee classification and wage and hour regulations. Those changes could adversely impact industry practices and our real estate brokerage operations. Our development and construction of condominiums and subdivisions are subject to claims from the related condominium association and/or homeowners association at each project. A portion of our business is dedicated to the formation of condominiums, which are governed by condominium associations. Although we retain control of the condominium associations at a number of our projects, we are required to transfer control of the condominium association’s board of directors once we trigger one of several statutory thresholds, with the most likely triggers being tied to the sale of not less than a majority of units to third-party owners. Although we maintain reserves for turnover purposes, transfer of control can result in claims with respect to deficiencies in operating funds and reserves, construction defects, failure to maintain common areas and other condominium-related matters by the condominium association and/or the third-party condominium unit owners. Any such material claims, including those in excess of our established reserves, could negatively affect our reputation in condominium development and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole. 26 Table of Contents A portion of our business is dedicated to the formation of subdivisions, which are governed by homeowners associations. As with condominium associations, although we retain control of the homeowners associations at a number of our projects, we are required to transfer control of the homeowners association’s board of directors once we trigger one of several statutory thresholds, with the most likely triggers being tied to the sale of not less than a majority of subdivided home sites to third-party owners. Transfer of control can result in claims with respect to deficiencies in operating funds and reserves (to the extent applicable), construction defects, failure to maintain common areas and other subdivision-related matters by the homeowners association and/or the third-party subdivided lot owners. Any such material claims, including those in excess of our established reserves (if any), could negatively affect our reputation in subdivision development and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole. Shortfalls in association revenues leading to increased levels of homeowner association deficit funding could negatively affect our business. As a developer, we typically deficit fund the homeowner associations we control until the turnover of the association to the residents. If we have insufficient sales of homes in any community or if the number of delinquencies with respect to the payment of association assessments by the homeowners increases in any of our communities (in each case resulting in shortfalls in association revenues), our deficit funding levels may increase from historical levels, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased insurance risk and adverse changes in economic conditions could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies are continuously re-examining their business risks and, in connection therewith, have taken actions, including increasing premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverage, imposing exclusions, such as mold damage, sinkholes, sabotage and terrorism, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any increased premiums, mandated exclusions, changes in limits, changes in coverage, changes in terms and conditions or reductions in the amounts of bonding capacity available may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Warranty, liability and other claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction, architectural and design defects, product liability and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims related to moisture intrusion and mold. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In certain legal proceedings, plaintiffs may seek class action status with potential class sizes that vary from case to case. Class action lawsuits can be costly to defend and, if we were to lose any certified class action lawsuit, could result in substantial potential liability for us. We record reserves, if necessary, for such matters in our consolidated financial statements. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defects, moisture intrusion and related mold claims and product liability, the interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process are highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique characteristics. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. Although we maintain warranty and other reserves, we obtain insurance for construction defect claims and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for some portion of a liability arising from their work. Such policies and reserves may not be available or adequate to cover our ultimate liability for damages, costs of repairs and/or the expense of litigation surrounding claims. Future claims may also arise out of uninsurable events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. In addition, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in our estimates and assumptions pertaining to these proceedings or due to the ultimate resolution of any related litigation. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent. Any actual or threatened claim against us, regardless of its merit, may lead to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and home sales. 27 Table of Contents We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award, changes in immigration laws, trends in labor force migration and other fluctuations in the labor market. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Our ability to retain our key personnel or to attract a suitable replacement should any member of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. Furthermore, the process of attracting and retaining suitable replacements for key personnel whose services we may lose would result in transition costs and would divert the attention of other members of our senior management away from our existing operations. Moreover, we do not maintain key person insurance in respect of any member of our senior management team. The loss of any of our management members or key personnel could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. To effectively compete in our industry, we must ensure that the experience and knowledge of our employees is institutionalized and is not lost when personnel leave us due to retirement, redundancy or other reasons. Failure to do so would adversely affect our standard of service to our homebuyers and other customers, financial condition and results of operations. Inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if housing demand declines. Inflation can have an adverse impact on our results of operations because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the selling prices of our homes to maintain satisfactory gross margins. If there is a reversal or slowing of the current housing market recovery, we may not be able to sufficiently increase our home selling prices due to, among other things, competition in the industry. In such an environment, we may not be able to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation and our gross margins could decline. Ultimately, we might need to decrease home selling prices, which could further reduce our gross margins and require us to reduce the carrying value of our land inventory. Moreover, our cost of capital increases as a result of inflation and the purchasing power of our cash resources declines. Current or future efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may yield higher inflation and cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in home order cancellations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 7.4%, 6.8% and 4.7% of our total home orders were cancelled, respectively. In the normal course of business, buyers who contract to buy a home occasionally do not close on the transaction whether due to an economic downturn, failure to satisfy contingencies, mutual termination, default by the buyer or otherwise. An increase in the rate or number of cancellations may adversely impact our home sales revenues and results of operations, as well as our backlog. In cases of cancellations, we remarket the home and usually keep any deposits that we are permitted to retain. These deposits may not cover the additional carrying costs and costs to resell the home. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and we may be unable to quickly sell our properties for satisfactory prices in response to adverse changes in economic or financial conditions. Due to the relative lack of liquidity in real estate investments, we may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in economic or financial conditions by quickly selling our properties. As a result, we may be forced to hold properties that do not generate any revenues. Alternatively, we may be compelled to sell homes or land at a loss. Under either scenario, we may be required to record impairment charges. Additionally, we face the general unpredictability of the real estate market and may not always know whether we can sell homes at the prices we set or how long it may take to find a buyer and close the sale of a property. Poor relations with the residents of our communities could negatively impact sales, which could cause our revenues and/or results of operations to decline. As a community developer, we may be expected by community residents from time to time to resolve any real or perceived issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation, development and/or turnover of our communities. Any efforts made by us in resolving these issues or disputes could be deemed unsatisfactory by the affected residents and any subsequent action by these residents could negatively impact sales, which could cause our revenues and/or results of operations to decline. In addition, we could be required to make material expenditures related to the settlement of such issues or disputes or modify our community development plans, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to litigation, which could materially and adversely affect us. In the future, we may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, securities offerings or otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in significant fines, judgments or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, thereby materially and adversely affecting us. Litigation or the resolution of litigation may affect the availability or cost of our insurance coverage, which could materially and adversely impact us, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and materially and adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers. 28 Table of Contents A major health and safety incident could adversely affect our operations, create potential liabilities and harm our reputation. Construction sites and our Homebuilding segment pose inherent health and safety risks to our employees and others. Due to regulatory requirements and the scale of our business, our health and safety performance is vital to the continued success of our business. A major health and safety incident may cause us to incur penalties and could expose us to liabilities. In addition, we may face significant negative publicity, which would adversely affect our reputation and relationships with members of the community, regulatory agencies, suppliers and contractors. Information technology failures, data security breaches and other similar adverse events could harm our business. We rely on information technology and other computer resources to perform important operational and marketing activities as well as to maintain our business and employee records and financial data. Many of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify certain security and service level standards. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer attacks by hackers, viruses, catastrophes, hardware and software failures and breach of data security protocols by our personnel. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and otherwise protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated and even the controls that we have installed might be breached. If we were to experience a significant period of disruption in the information technology systems that involve interactions with our customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, personal and confidential information, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to us. We may face utility or resource shortages or cost fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. A shortage of utilities or natural resources in geographic areas in which we operate may make it difficult for us to obtain regulatory approvals to begin our projects. Our existing projects may also be delayed, which would impose additional costs and jeopardize our ability to complete construction and meet our contractual obligations. Such shortages could adversely affect our access to key building materials, particularly concrete, steel and drywall, and could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our business. Additionally, municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. Those potential actions may cause delays in our projects, increase our costs or limit our ability to operate in those geographic areas, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Geopolitical risks and market disruption could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Geopolitical events, acts of war or terrorism or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities throughout the world or health pandemics, may have a substantial impact on the economy, consumer confidence, the housing market, our employees and our customers. Historically, perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars and related geopolitical risks have also created significant economic and political uncertainties. If any such events were to occur, or there was a perception that they were about to occur, they could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We intend to use leverage in executing our business strategy, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to employ prudent levels of leverage to finance our business, including the acquisition and development of home sites and the construction of homes. As of December 31, 2015, we had $250.0 million of total aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, which consisted solely of our 6.875% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “2021 Notes”). Additionally, during August 2013, we entered into a four-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $75.0 million (the “Original Revolving Credit Facility”). As of December 31, 2015, we had $218.7 million of available liquidity from cash and cash equivalents, the Original Revolving Credit Facility and our five-year $10.0 million senior secured loan with Stonegate Bank (the “Stonegate Loan”). On February 9, 2016, the Original Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated (the “Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility”) by the Company and the lenders party thereto to, among other things, increase the total amount available thereunder to $115.0 million and extend the term of the agreement to February 9, 2020. See Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our debt obligations. 29 Table of Contents We will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and making decisions regarding the incurrence of new indebtedness, including the purchase price of assets to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our assets and the ability of particular assets, and the Company as a whole, to generate cash flow to cover the expected debt service. As a means of sustaining our long-term financial health and limiting our exposure to unforeseen dislocations in the debt and financing markets, we currently expect to remain conservatively capitalized. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws do not contain a limitation on the amount of debt that we may incur and we may change our target debt levels at any time without the approval of our shareholders, subject to the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements. Our use of debt could subject us to many risks that, if realized, would adversely affect us, including the risk that: • our cash flow from operating activities may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt, which would likely result in an acceleration of such debt; • our debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurances that investment yields will increase with higher financing costs; • our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund real estate inventories, capital expenditures and acquisitions, particularly when the availability of financing in the capital markets is limited; and • we may be required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future investment opportunities or other purposes. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance our debt through additional debt or equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of our assets on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. To the extent that we cannot meet any future debt service obligations, we risk losing some or all of our assets through foreclosure proceedings to the extent that such assets are pledged to secure our obligations. Certain of our debt agreements have, and any additional debt agreements that we enter into in the future may contain, specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving holders of certain debt the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Defaults under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our current debt has, and any additional debt we subsequently incur may have, a floating rate of interest. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on our current floating rate debt and on any floating rate debt we subsequently incur, and could reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. If we cannot obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, our ability to operate may be restricted. We use letters of credit and surety bonds (performance and financial) to guarantee our performance under various land development and construction agreements, land purchase obligations, escrow agreements, financial guarantees and other arrangements, primarily with governmental authorities. Under Florida law, we also need surety bonds to use homebuyers’ escrowed deposits for construction purposes, unless homebuyers waive their escrow rights. As of December 31, 2015, we had $1.6 million of outstanding letters of credit. Performance bonds do not have stated expiration dates; rather, we are released from the bonds as the contractual performance is completed. Our performance and financial bonds, which totaled $47.6 million as of December 31, 2015, are typically outstanding over a period of approximately one to five years or longer, depending on, among other things, the pace of development. Our estimated exposure on the outstanding performance and financial bonds as of December 31, 2015 was $28.4 million, primarily based on development remaining to be completed. Our ability to obtain additional letters of credit and surety bonds primarily depends on our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the capacity of the markets for such financial instruments. Issuers of letters of credit and surety bond providers consider these factors in addition to our performance and claims record and provider-specific underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. We must also fully indemnify providers of surety bonds. If banks were to decline to issue letters of credit or surety companies were to decline to issue performance and financial bonds, or if we are required to provide credit enhancement, such as cash deposits, our ability to operate could be significantly restricted, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We may need additional financing to fund our operations or expand our business and if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing or such financing is obtained on adverse terms, we may not be able to operate or expand our business as planned, which could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and we incur significant costs in the early stages of our projects to acquire land parcels and begin development. Additionally, if housing markets are not favorable or permitting and development takes longer than anticipated, we may be required to hold our investments in land for extended periods of time. Our access to additional third-party sources of financing will depend, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • with respect to acquisition and/or development financing, the market’s perception of the value of the land parcels to be acquired and/or developed; • our debt levels; • our expected results of operations; • our cash flow; and • the market price of our common stock. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned expenditures for land acquisitions, development and construction will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. If our business does not achieve the levels of profitability or generate the amount of cash that we anticipate or if we expand through acquisitions or organic growth faster than anticipated, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing to operate and expand our business. Based on our current operations, anticipated growth and certain capital raising activities during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we believe that we can meet our cash requirements for the year ending December 31, 2016 with existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operating activities (including sales of homes and land). To a large extent, though, our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We can provide no assurances that our business will generate cash flow from operating activities in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. Further, our capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned if, for example, our revenues do not reach expected levels or we incur unforeseen capital expenditures and/or make investments to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, as necessary, we may seek alternative financing, such as selling additional debt or equity securities or divesting assets or operations. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. Moreover, if we do raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt service costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We may also choose to raise additional funds through equity, which would result in dilution to existing shareholders. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow, refinance our debt or incur additional debt on favorable terms could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause us to be unable to service our debt and may delay or prevent the expansion of our business or otherwise require us to forego market opportunities. Our ability to obtain third-party financing may be negatively affected by any downgrade of our credit rating by a rating agency. Our corporate credit rating and the rating of the 2021 Notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. We consider the availability of third-party financing to be a key component of our long-term strategy to grow our business. As such, a portion of our future access to capital may be through the issuance of notes and other debt securities. Downgrades in our corporate credit rating or the rating of the 2021 Notes could: (i) make it difficult for us to sell debt securities in the future; (ii) result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to any debt securities that we may issue in the future; and (iii) otherwise impair our ability to obtain financing on terms that are favorable to us. Each of these circumstances could adversely impact our business and future operations. Our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing the 2021 Notes, the credit agreement governing the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and the senior loan agreement governing the Stonegate Loan restrict, and any debt we incur in the future will likely restrict, our ability to take specific actions even if we believe that such actions may be in our best interests. These include, but are not limited to, covenants (financial and otherwise) generally affecting our ability, subject to certain exceptions and exemptions, to: • incur additional indebtedness; • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions on capital stock; 31 Table of Contents • make investments; • create liens; • place restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to WCI Communities, Inc.; • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; • sell assets; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Additionally, the credit agreement governing the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility contains customary affirmative covenants and certain financial maintenance covenants, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth covenant, a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and a covenant requiring either minimum liquidity or maintenance of a consolidated interest coverage ratio according to a schedule set forth in such credit agreement. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants (financial or otherwise) or restrictions, we could be in default under our existing debt arrangements or any other future financing arrangement that we enter into. This circumstance would permit the holders of the 2021 Notes, the lenders under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility or Stonegate Bank to take certain actions, including declaring the 2021 Notes, the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility or the Stonegate Loan, as applicable, due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the 2021 Notes, the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility, the Stonegate Loan or any other future financing arrangement that we enter into were to be accelerated, our assets, in particular our liquid assets, may be insufficient to repay our indebtedness. A default could also significantly limit our financing alternatives, which could cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets when we otherwise would not choose to do so. The occurrence of any default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Organization and Ownership of Our Common Stock Certain of our shareholders have the ability to nominate a director to our board of directors and each board committee (subject to applicable independence requirements of each committee) and the interests of such shareholders may differ from our interests or those of our other shareholders. In connection with the completion of an initial public offering of 6,819,091 shares of our common stock during July 2013 (the “Initial Public Offering”), we entered into stockholders agreements with each of Monarch Alternative Capital LP and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “Monarch”) and Stonehill Capital Management LLC and certain of its affiliates (together with Monarch, the “Principal Investors”). For so long as a Principal Investor held at least 60% of the shares of our common stock held by it at the consummation of our Initial Public Offering, such Principal Investor had the right to nominate two directors to our board of directors and one director to each board committee (subject to applicable independence requirements of each committee). When a Principal Investor owns less than 60%, but at least 20%, of the shares of our common stock held by it at the consummation of our Initial Public Offering, such Principal Investor is entitled to nominate one director to our board of directors and each board committee (subject to applicable independence requirements of each committee). As of February 22, 2016, each of the Principal Investors held less than 60%, but more than 20%, of the shares of our common stock held by it at the consummation of our Initial Public Offering. As a result, pursuant to the respective stockholders agreements, each Principal Investor is entitled to nominate one director to our board of directors and each board committee (subject to applicable independence requirements of each committee). Under the stockholders agreements, we also agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to take all necessary and desirable actions within our control to cause the election, removal and replacement of such directors in accordance with the stockholders agreements and applicable law. Each Principal Investor has also agreed to vote for the other’s board nominees in accordance with the terms of a separate voting agreement between the Principal Investors. The interests of the Principal Investors may differ from our interests or those of our other shareholders and may make certain corporate transactions more difficult or impossible without their support, even if such actions are in the best interests of our other shareholders. Therefore, the rights of the Principal Investors may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The share price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as quarterly variations in our results of operations, changes in government regulations, the announcement of new contracts and acquisitions by us or our competitors, general market conditions specific to the homebuilding industry, changes in general economic and political conditions, volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates, threatened or actual litigation and government investigations, an adverse market reaction to the level of our indebtedness, the addition or departure of key personnel, actions taken by our shareholders, including the sale or disposition of their shares of our common stock, speculation in the press or investment community, changes in accounting principles, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts and changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections. These and other factors may lower the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based on factors that have little or nothing to do with us and these fluctuations could materially reduce the price of our common stock. We are an emerging growth company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We qualify as an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, and we are eligible to take advantage of exemptions from certain reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We may take advantage of these provisions until we are no longer an emerging growth company, which will be the earlier of (i) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our Initial Public Offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30th, and (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our elections, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which require that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition, and the rules and regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and the New York Stock Exchange, each of which imposes additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. The aforementioned reporting requirements and obligations increase after a registrant is no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company. Complying with these laws, regulations and standards has increased our general and administrative expenses during the three years ended December 31, 2015. In the future, we may utilize funds to pay such public company expenses that would otherwise be used to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. Additionally, these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This environment could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and any future investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the intentions of regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, it may be difficult and expensive to maintain director and officer liability insurance and, accordingly, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. The failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting in a manner that meets the standards of publicly traded companies as promulgated under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Section 404(a)”). As such, we completed the necessary evaluative procedures during the year ended December 31, 2015 and issued our annual report on internal control over financial reporting, which can be found in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and, if necessary, remediation. 33 Table of Contents In the future, we may encounter problems or delays when implementing any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any required improvements and receiving a favorable attestation report in connection with the attestation provided by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our common stock could decline. The existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote considerable time and incur significant costs to remediate any such matter. Moreover, management may not be able to remediate any identified material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner. The existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could require us to restate such financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our regulatory reporting obligations and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, each of which could materially and adversely affect us. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay, discourage or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders, and could make it more difficult for shareholders to change our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to fill a vacancy created by an expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without the approval of our shareholders, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our amended and restated bylaws without obtaining the approval of our shareholders; • the required approval of at least 662/3% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors; • a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent, which forces shareholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our shareholders; • no requirement that a special meeting of shareholders be called at the request of shareholders, other than at the request of either of the Principal Investors, so long as one of them or both together hold at least 10% of our outstanding shares, which may delay the ability of our shareholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures with which shareholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a shareholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. 34 Table of Contents We have also opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“Section 203”), which regulates corporate takeovers. However, our charter contains provisions that are similar to Section 203. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we may not engage in certain “business combinations” with any “interested stockholder” for a three-year period following the time that the person became an interested stockholder, unless: • prior to the time that such person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder; • upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the person becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the Company outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding certain shares; or • at or subsequent to the time the person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. Generally, a business combination includes a merger, consolidation, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with that person’s affiliates and associates, owns, or within the previous three years owned, 15% or more of our voting stock. However, in our case, the Principal Investors and any of their affiliates and subsidiaries and any of their direct or indirect transferees receiving 15% or more of our voting stock will not be deemed to be interested stockholders regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them and, accordingly, will not be subject to such restrictions. This provision could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire the Company. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. In addition, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to indemnify our directors, executive officers and other employees, as determined by our board of directors. Under the terms of such indemnification agreements, we are required to indemnify each of our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, if the basis of the indemnitee’s involvement was by reason of the fact that the indemnitee is or was a director, or officer, of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or was serving at the Company’s request in an official capacity for another entity. Any claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us. A substantial portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold into the market at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well, and could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. As of February 22, 2016, we had 26,341,138 shares of outstanding common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Shareholders holding 4,340,115 shares of our common stock as of February 22, 2016, or approximately 16.5% of our outstanding common stock, have the right, subject to various conditions and limitations, to include their shares of our common stock in registration statements relating to our securities, including our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-200330) that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 1, 2014 (the “Shelf Registration Statement”). If the offer and sale of these shares are registered, they will be freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Shares of common stock sold under such registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event that such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock are sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Under certain employee stock-based compensation plans that we adopted during 2013 (the “2013 Plans”), we are authorized to issue up to 2,987,000 shares of our common stock. We registered all such shares under the Securities Act on a registration statement on Form S-8. Once issued and released from any restrictions thereon, these shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market, subject to sale limitations contained in the 2013 Plans, as applicable, Rule 10b5-1 sales plans, if any, and volume limitations applicable to affiliates under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. As of February 22, 2016, 1,419,823 shares of our common stock were subject to outstanding awards under the 2013 Plans and 1,510,024 shares of common stock were reserved and available for issuance under such plans. For further discussion of our employee stock-based incentive compensation plans, see Note 13 to our audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 35 Table of Contents In the future, we may also issue common stock, convertible securities and other equity securities if we need to raise additional capital, which could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. We may sell common stock, convertible securities and other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner as we may determine from time to time. If we sell any such securities in future transactions, our existing shareholders may be materially diluted. New investors in such future transactions could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt securities or additional offerings of equity securities, in each case, in private transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act or pursuant to registration statements relating to our securities, including the Shelf Registration Statement. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both, and may result in future limitations under Section 382 that could reduce the rate at which we utilize our NOL carryforwards. Preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments, or both, that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings, if any, and holders of our common stock bear the risk that any such future offerings could reduce the market price of our common stock and dilute their ownership interests in the Company. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. Therefore, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Additionally, under the indenture governing the 2021 Notes, the credit agreement governing the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and any other future financing arrangement that we enter into, we may be unable to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. Accordingly, shareholders may need to sell their shares of our common stock to realize a return on their investment and they may not be able to sell those shares at or above the price they paid for them. If securities analysts do not publish favorable reports about the Company or if we, or our industry, are the subject of unfavorable commentary, the market price of our common stock could decline. The market price of our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports about the Company that are published by financial and market analysts. Such analysts could issue negative commentary about the Company or our industry, or they could downgrade our common stock. We may also be unable to ensure that the Company receives sufficient research coverage and has visibility in the market. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common stock could decline. Non-U.S. holders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gains realized from the sale or other disposition of our common stock. Due to our holdings in U.S. real property interests, we believe that we currently are, and will continue to remain being for the foreseeable future, a “U.S. real property holding corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a non-U.S. holder generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain realized on a sale or other disposition of our common stock, unless our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the New York Stock Exchange) and such non-U.S. holder did not actually or constructively own more than 5% of our common stock at any time during the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding the date of the sale or other disposition and (ii) the non-U.S. holder’s holding period in such common stock. In addition, a 10% withholding tax could apply to the gross proceeds from a sale or other disposition of our common stock by a non-U.S. holder and to any distribution in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, if our common stock is not regularly traded on an established securities market. A non-U.S. holder will also be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for any taxable year in which it realizes a gain from the sale or other disposition of our common stock that is subject to U.S. federal income tax. Non-U.S. holders should consult with their own tax advisors concerning the consequences of disposing of our common stock. For purposes of this paragraph, a “non-U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of our common stock that is an individual, corporation, trust or estate that is not a “U.S. person” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 