ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following summarizes the material risks of purchasing or owning our securities. Additional unknown risks may also impair our financial performance and business operations. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operation may be materially adversely affected by the nature and impact of these risks. In such case, the market value of our securities could be detrimentally affected, and investors may lose part or all of the value of their investment. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. We have grouped these risk factors into the following general categories: · Risks related to our business; · Risks related to the healthcare industry; · Risks related to the real estate industry; · Risks related to financings; 31 Table of Contents · Risks related to our formation and structure; and · Risks related to our qualification and operation as a REIT. Risks Related To Our Business We are recently formed and have a very limited operating history; therefore there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve our investment objectives. We commenced operations on July 24, 2013 and have a very limited operating history. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives as described in this report and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of investment opportunities, readily accessible short and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow over time to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to shareholders. Our real estate investments are concentrated in healthcare properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified in other segments of the economy. We will acquire, own, manage, operate and selectively develop properties for lease primarily to physicians, hospitals and healthcare delivery systems. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and the risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to concentrate our investments in the healthcare sector. Any adverse effects that result from these risks could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of healthcare properties. Given our concentration in this sector, our tenant base is especially concentrated and dependent upon the healthcare industry generally, and any industry downturn could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments and our ability to maintain current rental and occupancy rates. Our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a significant portion of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare delivery system. Accordingly, a downturn in the healthcare industry generally, or in the healthcare related facility specifically, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from five tenants and the bankruptcy, insolvency or weakened financial position of any one of them or our other tenants could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. We receive substantially all of our revenue as rent payments from tenants under leases of space in our healthcare properties, with our five largest tenants based upon rental revenue representing approximately $9.9 million, or 46.7%, of the annualized rent from our initial properties as of December 31, 2013. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants’ businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. Additionally, private or governmental payors may lower the reimbursement rates paid to our tenants for their healthcare services. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”) provides for significant reductions to Medicare and Medicaid payments. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement or renewal, fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, lessee failures to make rent payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and, particularly in the case of a large tenant, or a significant number of tenants, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. In addition, to the extent a tenant vacates specialized space in one of our properties (such as imaging space, ambulatory surgical space, or inpatient hospital space), re-leasing the vacated space could be more difficult than re-leasing more generic office space, as there are fewer users for such specialized healthcare space in a typical market than for more traditional office space. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from a bankruptcy court, which we may be unable to obtain. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant assumes the lease while in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim that we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims that we hold, if any, which may 32 Table of Contents have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs. Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our revenue is attributed could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 42% of our total annualized rent was derived from properties located in Texas (26%) and Atlanta, Georgia (16%). The Texas properties are concentrated in El Paso and Plano. Further, through our operating partnership, we closed on the acquisitions of the Eagles Landing Family Practice medical office buildings, a total of four properties, located in McDonough, Jackson and Conyers, Georgia on February 19, 2014. Also on February 19, 2014, through our operating partnership, we closed on the acquisition of a hospital located in San Antonio, Texas. On February 28, 2014, we closed on two separate acquisitions of a medical office building located in San Antonio, Texas and a medical office building located in Atlanta, Georgia. See “Part I, Item 1. Business - Recent Developments” for a further discussion of these acquisitions. As a result of this geographic concentration, we are particularly exposed to downturns in these local economies or other changes in local real estate market conditions. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in either of these areas could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. In the event of negative economic or other changes in either of these markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from focusing on healthcare properties that are strategically aligned with a healthcare delivery system and from the relationships established through such strategic alignments. As part of our business strategy, we focus on healthcare properties that are strategically aligned with a healthcare delivery system by (i) seeking to acquire, own, manage, and develop healthcare properties that are located on medical campuses where the underlying land is owned by a healthcare delivery system or by us, or (ii) seeking to acquire, own, manage, and develop healthcare properties located in close proximity to a healthcare delivery system or strategically aligned with a healthcare delivery system through leasing or other arrangements. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate as a result of these strategic relationships. In particular, we may not obtain or realize increased rents, long-term tenants, or reduced tenant turnover rates as compared to healthcare properties that are not strategically aligned. Moreover, building a portfolio of healthcare properties that are strategically aligned does not assure the success of any given property. The associated healthcare delivery system may not be successful and the strategic alignment that we seek for our healthcare properties could dissolve, and we may not succeed in replacing them. If we do not realize the benefits that we anticipate from this focus and those strategic alignments dissolve and we are not successful in replacing them, our reputation, business, financial results and prospects may be adversely affected. Adverse economic or other conditions in the geographic markets in which we conduct business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating results. Our operating results depend upon our ability to maintain and increase occupancy levels and rental rates at our properties. Adverse economic or other conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate, including periods of economic slowdown or recession, industry slowdowns, periods of deflation, relocation of businesses, changing demographics, earthquakes and other natural disasters, fires, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war and other man-made disasters which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses, and changes in tax, real estate, zoning and other laws and regulations, may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental concessions. The failure of our properties to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. We may have difficulty finding suitable replacement tenants in the event of a tenant default or non-renewal of our leases, especially for our properties located in smaller markets. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current terms. Nearly all of our initial properties are subject to leases which have multi-year terms. As of December 31, 2013, leases representing 3.2%, 1.4% and 4.8% of leasable square feet at our initial properties will expire in the remainder of 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. If any of our leases are not renewed, we would attempt to lease those properties to another tenant. In case of non-renewal, we 33 Table of Contents generally have advance notice before expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such expiration. However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacement tenants or entering into leases with new tenants on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, or at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. Our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable tenant could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, certificate of need or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a material adverse effect on us. All of these risks may be greater in smaller markets, where there may be fewer potential replacement tenants, making it more difficult to replace tenants, especially for specialized spaces, like hospital or outpatient treatment facilities located in our properties, and could have a material adverse effect on us. We may fail to complete any pending acquisitions, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, earnings and cash flow. The acquisition of certain properties described in “Part I. Item 1. Business — Recent Developments” are subject to customary closing conditions, and there can be no assurance that those conditions will be satisfied or that the acquisitions will close on the terms described herein or at all. These transactions, whether or not successful, require substantial time and attention from management. Furthermore, the potential acquisitions require significant expense, including expenses for due diligence, legal and accounting fees and other costs. In the event we do not complete these transactions, these expenses will not be offset by revenues from the investments and we will have issued a significant number of additional common shares without realizing a corresponding increase in earnings and cash flow from the investments. As a result, our failure to complete these transactions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common shares. We may be unable to successfully acquire or develop properties and expand our operations into new or existing markets. We intend to explore acquisitions or developments of properties in new and existing geographic markets. These acquisitions and developments could divert management’s attention from our existing properties, and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees. In addition, we may not possess familiarity with the dynamics and prevailing conditions of any new geographic markets which could adversely affect our ability to successfully expand into or operate within those markets. For example, new markets may have different insurance practices, reimbursement rates and local real estate, zoning and development regulations than those with which we are familiar. We may find ourselves more dependent on third parties in new markets because our distance could hinder our ability to directly and efficiently manage and otherwise monitor new properties in new markets. Our expansion into new markets could result in unexpected costs or delays as well as lower occupancy rates and other adverse consequences. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets which meet our acquisition or development criteria or in consummating acquisitions or developments on satisfactory terms or at all for a number of reasons, including, among other things, unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations, failure to obtain financing for the acquisition or development on favorable terms or at all, and our misjudgment of the value of the opportunities. We may also be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired properties, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new or our existing markets, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. We may not be successful in identifying and completing off-market acquisitions and other suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. An important component of our growth strategy is to acquire properties before they are widely marketed by the owners, or off-market. Facilities that are acquired off-market are typically more attractive to us as a purchaser because of the 34 Table of Contents absence of a formal marketing process, which could lead to higher prices or other unattractive terms. If we cannot obtain off-market deal flow in the future, our ability to locate and acquire facilities at attractive prices could be adversely affected. We expect to compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of healthcare properties, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare-related real estate properties. The competition for healthcare-related real estate properties may significantly increase the price that we must pay for healthcare properties or other assets that we seek to acquire, and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs that target healthcare properties may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital, enhanced operating efficiencies, more personnel and market penetration and familiarity with markets. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. Increased competition would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore likely would increase prices paid for them. Those higher prices for healthcare properties or other assets may adversely affect our returns from our investments. Some of our existing properties and properties we acquire in the future are and may be subject to ground lease or other restrictions on the use of the space. If we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures to procure new tenants, then our business and results of operations may suffer. Three of our properties (Mid Coast Hospital, Valley West Hospital and Crescent City Surgical Centre), representing approximately 17% of our total leasable square feet and 23.4% of our annualized revenue for the period ended December 31, 2013, are subject to ground leases that contain certain restrictions. These restrictions include limits on our ability to re-let our initial properties to tenants not affiliated with the healthcare delivery system that owns the underlying property, rights of purchase and rights of first offer and refusal with respect to sales of the property and limits on the types of medical procedures that may be performed. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could impede our growth. We may not be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Further, we may be required to undertake significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space to attract new tenants. If we are unable to promptly re-let our initial properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected or if we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Our healthcare properties, the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare properties are strategically aligned and our tenants may be unable to compete successfully. Our healthcare properties and the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare properties are strategically aligned often face competition from nearby hospitals and other healthcare properties that provide comparable services. In addition, pharmacies and other retailers may initiate or expand healthcare clinic operations and services to compete with our tenants in the provision of healthcare delivery systems. Any of our properties may be materially and adversely affected if the healthcare delivery system with which it is strategically aligned is unable to compete successfully. There are numerous factors that determine the ability of a healthcare delivery system to compete successfully, most of which are outside of our control. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices and service providers at nearby hospitals and other healthcare properties. From time to time and for reasons beyond our control, managed care organizations may change their lists of preferred hospitals or in-network physicians. Physicians also may change hospital affiliations. If competitors of our tenants or competitors of the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare properties are strategically aligned have greater geographic coverage, improve access and convenience to physicians and patients, provide or are perceived to provide higher quality services, recruit physicians to provide competing services at their facilities, expand or improve their services or obtain more favorable managed care contracts, our tenants may not be able to successfully compete. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our tenants or the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare properties are strategically aligned to compete in providing medical services and/or receiving sufficient rates of reimbursement for healthcare services rendered could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Our investments in development projects may not yield anticipated returns which could directly affect our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions. A component of our growth strategy is exploring development opportunities, some of which may arise through strategic joint ventures. In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular development, we make certain assumptions 35 Table of Contents regarding the expected future performance of that property. To the extent that we consummate development opportunities, our investment in these projects will be subject to the following risks: · we may be unable to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; · we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; · we may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop the property to market standards; · development or construction delays may provide tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur additional costs; · volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our development costs; · hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule; · we may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions; · tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels projected; · demand for our development project may decrease prior to completion, including due to competition from other developments; and · lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market and economic conditions. If our investments in development projects do not yield anticipated returns for any reason, including those set forth above, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. We currently have, and may in the future make, investments in joint ventures, which could be adversely affected by our lack of decision-making authority, our reliance upon our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners. We currently have, and may in the future make, co-investments with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring noncontrolling interests in or sharing responsibility for the management of the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Joint ventures generally involve risks not present with respect to our wholly-owned properties, including the following: · our joint venture partners may make management, financial and operating decisions with which we disagree or that are not in our best interest; · we may be prevented from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners; · our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted; · our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions which may delay construction or development of a healthcare related facility or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; · our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the healthcare related facility that conflict with our business interests and goals which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the healthcare related facility; 36 Table of Contents · disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the healthcare related facility or the joint venture which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business and possibly disrupt the daily operations of the healthcare related facility; and · we may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership. In addition to those risks identified above, our partners might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partners, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partners may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. In the future, in certain instances, we or our partners may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners’ interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partners’ interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. RIDEA and operating properties. We may invest in hospitals or other providers that are tenants of our properties, structured, where applicable, in compliance with RIDEA or other applicable REIT laws or regulations. If so, we will be exposed to various operational risks with respect to those operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include fluctuations in patient volume and occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation; the availability and increases in cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise) and other risks applicable to operating businesses. Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. We may not be able to control our operating costs or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenue does not increase, which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to control operating costs include the need to pay for insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time, the need periodically to repair, renovate and re-let space, the cost of compliance with governmental regulation, including zoning and tax laws, the potential for liability under applicable laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. Certain costs associated with real estate investments may not be reduced even if a healthcare related facility is not fully occupied or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. If our operating costs increase as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flows. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our initial properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flows from a healthcare related facility. If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. In addition, future lenders may require such insurance, and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. We may determine not to insure some or all of our properties at levels considered customary in our industry and which would expose us to an increased risk of loss. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with owning, leasing, developing and operating our properties may affect our results of operations. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, current and prior owners and tenants of real estate may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigating, remediating and monitoring certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. In addition to these costs, the past or present owner or tenant of a property from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injury or property damage that results from such releases, including for the unauthorized release of asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous substances into the air, as well as any damages to natural resources or the environment that arise from such releases. These environmental laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the current or prior owner or tenant knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such substances or materials. Moreover, the release of hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances or materials, may adversely affect the owner’s or tenant’s ability to lease, sell, develop or rent such property or to borrow by using such property as collateral. Persons who transport or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and tenants of real property with respect to the management of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. For example, environmental laws govern the management and removal of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. If we incur substantial costs to comply with these environmental laws or we are held liable under these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our healthcare properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the buildings, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted a detailed audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance, and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other related legislation, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Acquiring outstanding mortgages or other debt secured by a healthcare related facility or land suitable for development as a healthcare related facility may expose us to risks of costs and delays in acquiring the underlying property. We may decide to acquire outstanding mortgages or other debt secured by a healthcare related facility or land suitable for development as a healthcare related facility from lenders and investors if we believe we can ultimately foreclose or otherwise acquire ownership of the underlying property in the near-term through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other means. However, if we do acquire such debt, borrowers may seek to assert various defenses to our foreclosure or other actions and we may not be successful in acquiring the underlying property on a timely basis, or at all, in which event we could incur significant costs and experience significant delays in acquiring such properties, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance and reduce our expected returns from such investments. In addition, we may not earn a current return on such investments particularly if the mortgage or other debt that we acquire is in default. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and profitability. We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalations. Leases in the future may contain escalators contingent upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the revenues generated by our triple net leased properties do not meet the specified parameters or the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our growth and profitability will be hindered by these leases. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and healthcare delivery system clients. The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our current and future relationships with hospital and healthcare delivery system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to develop, maintain and be responsive to these relationships, and our relationships have helped us to secure acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other advisory, property management and projects, with both new and existing clients. If our relationships with hospital or health system clients deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities or other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects could be adversely impacted and our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged. Sequestration and legislation to address the federal government’s projected operating deficit could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Deficit reduction legislation generally referred to as “Sequestration” took effect in 2013, including a 2% reduction in Medicare reimbursement to hospitals and other Medicare providers. President Obama and members of the U.S. Congress have recently proposed various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives to reduce the federal government’s projected operating deficit. Some of these initiatives could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans. Although the President has signed legislation to fund the federal government through September 2014, future federal legislation relating to deficit reduction that reduces reimbursement payments to healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. Our investments in real estate-related investments will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, which may have a material effect on your investment. Our loans held for investment generally will be directly or indirectly secured by a lien on real property, or the equity interests in an entity that owns real property, that, upon the occurrence of a default on the loan, could result in our acquiring ownership of the property. We will not know whether the values of the properties ultimately securing our loans will remain at or above the levels existing on the dates of origination of those loans. If the values of the underlying properties decline, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the security associated with such loans. In this manner, real estate values could impact the values of our loan investments. Any investments in mortgage-related securities, collateralized debt obligations and other real estate-related investments (including potential investments in real property) may be similarly affected by real estate property values. Therefore, our investments will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate. The value of real estate may be adversely affected by a number of risks, including: · natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods; · acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; · adverse changes in national and local economic and real estate conditions; · an oversupply of (or a reduction in demand for) space in the areas where particular properties are located and the attractiveness of particular properties to prospective tenants; · changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance therewith and the potential for liability under applicable laws; · costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties; and the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses. The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. Many expenditures associated with properties (such as property taxes, operating expenses and capital expenditures) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. These factors may have a material 39 Table of Contents adverse effect on the ability of the borrowers to pay their loans, as well as on the value that we can realize from assets we own or acquire. Our investments in, or originations of, senior debt or mezzanine debt will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular company and to the general risks of investing in real estate-related loans and securities, which may result in significant losses. We may invest in, or originate, senior debt or mezzanine debt. These investments will involve special risks relating to the particular borrower, including its financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business and prospects. In particular, the debt securities may not be collateralized and also may be subordinated to the entity’s other obligations. We are likely to invest in debt securities of companies that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade by one or more rating agencies. Investments that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade have a higher risk of default than investment grade rated assets and therefore may result in losses to us. We have not adopted any limit on such investments. These investments also will subject us to the risks inherent with real estate investments referred to previously, including: · risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; · the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property; · risks generally incident to interests in real property; and · risks specific to the type and use of a particular property. These risks may adversely affect the value of our investments and the ability of our borrowers to make principal and interest payments in a timely manner, or at all, and could result in significant losses. Our independent registered public accountants have reported to us that, at December 31, 2012, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of the combined financial statements of our Predecessor for the year ended December 31, 2012, our independent registered public accountants identified a material weakness deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. A “deficiency” in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect and correct misstatements on a timely basis. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the combined financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The issues identified by our independent registered public accountants related to the timing of data collection from our property managers, resulting in a limited amount of review of this financial information by our Predecessor’s management, and a recommendation to adopt formal procedures and process to identify potential impairment issues of the Predecessor’s properties. We have already taken steps to address these data collection and controls with our property managers, implement formal procedures and processes to adequately review this financial information, and will have a formal procedure and process to identify potential impairment issues, if any, with our properties going forward. Material weaknesses and significant deficiencies that may be identified in the future will need to be addressed as part of the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will not apply to us until our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could adversely impact our company and result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities. Our tenants generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in 40 Table of Contents government programs, billing for services, privacy and security of health information and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. In addition, new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could negatively affect our financial condition and the financial condition of our tenants. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted. The Affordable Care Act will change how healthcare services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals and reduced Medicare program spending. In addition, the new law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. The complexities and ramifications of the Affordable Care Act are significant and will be implemented in a phased approach that began in 2010. At this time, it is difficult to predict the full effects of the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our business, our revenues and financial condition and those of our tenants due to the law’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual implementation and possible amendment. Further, we are unable to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act could adversely affect the reimbursement rates received by our tenants, the financial success of our tenants and strategic partners and consequently us. Many states also regulate the construction of healthcare facilities, the expansion of healthcare facilities, the construction or expansion of certain services, including by way of example specific bed types and medical equipment, as well as certain capital expenditures through certificate of need, or CON, laws. Under such laws, the applicable state regulatory body must determine a need exists for a project before the project can be undertaken. If one of our tenants seeks to undertake a CON-regulated project, but is not authorized by the applicable regulatory body to proceed with the project, the tenant would be prevented from operating in its intended manner. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect us directly and our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing, among other things: · changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; · changes in third party reimbursement methods and policies; · consolidation and pressure to integrate within the healthcare industry through acquisitions and joint ventures; and · increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by U.S. federal and state authorities. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us or renew their lease. Sources of revenue for our tenants typically include the U.S. federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance payors and health maintenance organizations. Healthcare providers continue to face increased government and private payor pressure to control or reduce healthcare costs and significant reductions in healthcare reimbursement, including reduced reimbursements and changes to payment methodologies under the Affordable Care Act. The Congressional Budget Office, or CBO, estimates the reductions required by the Affordable Care Act over the next ten years will include $415 billion in cuts to Medicare fee-for-service payments, the majority of which will come from hospitals, and that some hospitals will become insolvent as a result of the reductions. In some cases, private insurers rely upon all or portions of the Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates which may result in decreased reimbursement from private insurers. 41 Table of Contents The slowdown in the United States economy has negatively affected state budgets, thereby putting pressure on states to decrease spending on state programs including Medicaid. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. Historically, states have often attempted to reduce Medicaid spending by limiting benefits and tightening Medicaid eligibility requirements. Many states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, legislation designed to enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states’ Medicaid systems. Potential reductions to Medicaid program spending in response to state budgetary pressures could negatively impact the ability of our tenants to successfully operate their businesses. Efforts by payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. A reduction in reimbursements to our tenants from third party payors for any reason could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us which may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Our tenants and our company are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to us. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. These laws include without limitation: · the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of any federal or state healthcare program patients; · the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition (commonly called the “Stark Law”), which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship; · the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts; and · state anti-kickback, anti-inducement, anti-referral and insurance fraud laws which may be generally similar to, and potentially more expansive than, the federal laws set forth above. Violations of these laws may result in criminal and/or civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the Affordable Care Act clarifies that the submission of claims for items or services generated in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the False Claims Act. The federal government has taken the position, and some courts have held, that violations of other laws, such as the Stark Law, can also be a violation of the False Claims Act. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants or strategic partners could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our healthcare properties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Further, we enter into leases and other financial relationships with healthcare delivery systems that are subject to or impacted by these laws. We also have other investors who are healthcare providers in certain of our subsidiaries that own our healthcare properties. If any of our relationships, including those related to the other investors in our subsidiaries, are found not to comply with these laws, we and our physician investors may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties. 42 Table of Contents Our healthcare-related tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us, and we could be subject to healthcare industry violations. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our healthcare properties and healthcare-related facilities operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, any settlements of such proceedings or investigations in excess of insurance coverage, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained or settlements reached in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action or investigation, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant’s ability to pay rent, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. We could also be subject to costly government investigations or other enforcement actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for distributions as well as the value of our initial properties. These events include, but are not limited to: · vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or tenant-favorable renewal options; · inability to collect rent from tenants; · competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, REITs and institutional investment funds; · reductions in the level of demand for healthcare properties and changes in the demand for certain healthcare-related properties; · increases in the supply of medical office space; · increases in expenses associated with our real estate operations, including, but not limited to, insurance costs, third party management fees, energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies, and restrictions on our ability to pass such expenses on to our tenants; and · changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies associated with real estate, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the ADA. 43 Table of Contents In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the recent U.S. economic downturn, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties to meet our financial expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common shares and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of any of our properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any of our properties for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of any of our properties. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Uncertain market conditions could cause us to sell our healthcare properties at a loss in the future. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our senior management team and our board of trustees may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a healthcare related facility, and we will have no obligation to sell our buildings at any particular time. We generally intend to hold our healthcare properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our healthcare properties, we may not be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future or at all. We may incur prepayment penalties in the event that we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Additionally, we could be forced to sell healthcare properties at inopportune times which could result in us selling the affected property at a substantial loss. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Any inability to sell a healthcare property could adversely impact our ability to make debt payments and distributions to our shareholders. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges. We will periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based upon factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. For example, the termination of a lease by a major tenant may lead to an impairment charge. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and fund from operations (“FFO”) in the period in which the impairment charge is recorded. Our mezzanine loan assets will involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties. We have originated (in connection with a forward purchase or option to purchase contract or otherwise) a mezzanine loan or other real estate-related investments which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender and because it is in second position and there may not be adequate equity in the property. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership 44 Table of Contents interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy such mezzanine loans. If a borrower defaults on such mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, the mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. We may be unable to enforce guaranties of payment and/or performance given as security for some mezzanine loans. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. Such mezzanine loans may partially finance the construction of real estate projects and so involve additional risks inherent in the construction process, such as adherence to budgets and construction schedules. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Significant losses related to our mezzanine loans would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Risks Related to Financings Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $42.8 million of mortgage debt on individual properties and have incurred additional debt since December 31, 2013 and expect to incur additional debt in the future. We do not anticipate that our internally generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing indebtedness upon maturity, and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through refinancings and future offerings of equity and debt securities, either of which we may be unable to secure on favorable terms or at all. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed upon us by our debt agreements could have adverse consequences, including the following: · our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; · we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions; · we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; · because a portion of our debt bears, or is expected to bear, interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense; · we may fail to effectively hedge against interest rate volatility · we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms if we are able to do so at all · after debt service, the amount available for distributions to our shareholders is reduced; · our leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; · we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; · we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our initial properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; · we may violate financial covenants contained in our various loan documents which would cause a default on our obligations, giving lenders various remedies, including increased interest rates, foreclosure and liability for additional expenses; · we may inadvertently violate non-financial restrictive covenants in our loan documents, such as covenants that require us to maintain the existence of entities, maintain insurance policies and provide financial statements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and 45 Table of Contents · our default under any of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in default on other indebtedness and result in the foreclosures of other properties. The realization of any or all of these risks may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. We rely upon external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and, if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future acquisitions necessary to grow our business or meet maturing obligations. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute each year to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income, without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all of our future capital needs from cash retained from operations, including capital needed to make investments and to satisfy or refinance maturing obligations. As a result, we expect to rely upon external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fund future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on satisfactory terms or at all, we may not be able to make the investments needed to expand our business or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common shares. We may not be in a position to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities for growth if we are unable to access the capital markets on a timely basis on favorable terms. We could become highly leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur. As of December 31, 2013, our indebtedness represented approximately 14.6% of our total assets. However, our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our operating partnership may incur. We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our properties at any time. If we become more highly leveraged, the resulting increase in outstanding debt could adversely affect our ability to make debt service payments, to pay our anticipated distributions and to make the distributions required to qualify as a REIT. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $4.5 million of variable-rate indebtedness outstanding that has not been swapped for a fixed interest rate and we expect that more of our indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility since December 31, 2013 and thereafter, will be subject to variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates on any variable rate indebtedness will increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. In certain cases, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement, that the arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. In addition, we may be limited in the type and amount of hedging transactions that we may use in the future by our need to satisfy the REIT income tests under the Code. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Our ability to issue equity to expand our business will depend, in part, upon the market price of our common shares, and our failure to meet market expectations with respect to our business could negatively affect the market price of our common shares and thereby limit our ability to raise capital. The availability of equity capital to us will depend, in part, upon the market price of our common shares which, in turn, will depend upon various market conditions and other factors that may change from time to time, including: 46 Table of Contents · the extent of investor interest; · our ability to satisfy the distribution requirements applicable to REITs; · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; · our financial performance and that of our tenants; · analyst reports about us and the REIT industry; · general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed income securities, which may lead prospective purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher annual yield from future distributions; · a failure to maintain or increase our dividend which is dependent, in large part, upon FFO which, in turn, depends upon increased revenue from additional acquisitions and rental increases; and · other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our common shares and, as a result, the cost and availability of equity capital to us. Risks Related to Our Formation and Structure We did not use third party appraisals of our initial properties to determine the consideration paid in the formation transactions. As a result, the value of the consideration paid for our initial properties in the formation transactions may exceed their aggregate fair market value. We did not use third party appraisals or obtain any independent third party valuations or fairness opinions in establishing the consideration paid for our initial properties contributed to us in connection with our formation transactions. Our operating partnership issued OP units and assumed certain indebtedness secured by the initial properties in exchange for the contribution of the initial properties. The total value of the consideration issued in exchange for the contribution of ownership interests in the initial properties may have exceeded the fair market value of such assets. Upon a sale of any of the initial properties, we may not realize the value that we attributed to such property at the time of our IPO. We may have assumed unknown liabilities in connection with the formation transactions which could result in unexpected liabilities and expenses. As part of the acquisition of our initial properties, we (through our operating partnership) received certain assets or interests in certain assets subject to existing liabilities, some of which may be unknown to us. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to this report (including those that had not been asserted or threatened prior to this report), tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Our recourse with respect to such liabilities may be limited. Depending upon the amount or nature of such liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our shares may be adversely affected. Our title insurance policies may not cover all title defects. Each of our properties is insured by a title insurance policy. We did not, however, obtain new owner’s title insurance policies in connection with the acquisition of all of our initial properties in the formation transactions. In some instances, these title insurance policies are effective as of the time of the initial acquisition or later refinancing of the relevant property by the prior owner of such property. For such properties, it is possible that there may be title defects that have arisen since such acquisition or refinancing for which we will have no title insurance coverage. If there were a material title defect related to any of our properties that is not adequately covered by a title insurance policy, we could lose some or all of our capital invested in and our anticipated profits from such property. 47 Table of Contents We did not obtain new Phase I environmental site assessments for our initial properties in connection with our formation transactions, and the assessments our Predecessor obtained before their acquisition of these properties do not provide assurance that we will not be exposed to environmental liabilities at our initial properties. We did not obtain new Phase I environmental site assessments with respect to all of our initial properties in connection with the formation transactions. No assurances can be given that any of the prior Phase I environmental site assessments previously obtained by the prior owner identify all environmental conditions impacting the properties because material environmental conditions may have developed since the Phase I environmental site assessments were conducted. The Phase I environmental site assessments are also of limited scope and do not include comprehensive asbestos, lead-based paint or lead in drinking water assessments. Therefore, the initial properties developed earlier than 1989 may contain such hazardous substances. Comprehensive mold and radon assessments also were not conducted and some of the initial properties were identified in areas with radon levels above action levels for residential buildings by the Environmental Protection Agency. We also cannot guarantee that a prior owner or tenant of our initial properties or that an adjacent property owner has not created a material environmental condition that is unknown to us or that there are no other unknown material environmental conditions as to any one or more of our initial properties. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may arise in the future. The realization of any or all of these risks may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. We have no direct operations and rely upon funds received from our operating partnership to meet our obligations. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating partnership. As of December 31, 2013, we owned approximately 85.3% of the OP units of our operating partnership and apart from this ownership interest, we will not have any independent operations. As a result, we rely upon distributions from our operating partnership to pay any distributions that we might declare on our common shares. We also rely upon distributions from our operating partnership to meet our obligations, including tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from our operating partnership (which might make distributions to us not equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). Shareholders’ claims will consequently be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our shareholders will be satisfied only after all of our and our operating partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the “JOBS Act” contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for “emerging growth companies,” including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting and other requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the requirements to: · provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404; · comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies; · comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; · comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise; · provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or · hold shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation. 48 Table of Contents We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we will not be subject to the same reporting and other requirements as other public companies. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares, the per share trading price of our common shares could decline and may be more volatile. We incur new costs as a result of becoming a public company, and such costs may increase if and when we cease to be an “emerging growth company.” As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we have not incurred as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect compliance with these public reporting requirements and associated rules and regulations to increase expenses, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, although we are currently unable to estimate theses costs with any degree of certainty. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, which could result in our incurring additional costs applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We will be subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will be permitted to gradually comply with certain of the on-going reporting and disclosure obligations of public companies pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. See “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors — We are an ‘emerging growth company,’ and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors.” However, after we are no longer an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require our auditors to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements as of December 31 subsequent to the period covered by this report. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging. We cannot give any assurances that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The existence of any material weakness described above would preclude a conclusion by management and our independent auditors that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weakness in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in the per share trading price of our common shares. Our business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us or if we are unsuccessful in integrating new personnel into our operations. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of Mr. Thomas, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sweet, our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, Mr. Lucey, our Senior Vice President—Principal Accounting and Reporting Officer and Mr. Theine, our Senior Vice President of Asset and Investment Management. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. Our ability to continue to acquire and develop healthcare properties depends upon the significant relationships that our senior management team has developed over many years. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Thomas, Sweet, Lucey and Theine, we cannot provide any assurance that any of them will remain employed by us. Our ability to retain our senior management team, or to attract suitable replacements should any member of the senior management team leave, is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services of, or the failure to successfully integrate one or more new members of, our senior management team could adversely affect our business and our prospects. 49 Table of Contents Our use of OP units as currency to acquire properties could result in shareholder dilution and/or limit our ability to sell such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may continue to acquire some properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP units, which may result in shareholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell properties at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of the terms of the contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our officers and trustees, and the terms of those agreements may be less favorable to us than they might otherwise be in an arm’s-length transaction. The contribution agreements relating to the contribution to our operating partnership of the indirect interests in certain properties and assets comprising our initial properties, contain very limited representations and warranties and have no express indemnification rights in the event of a breach of those agreements. In addition, we have entered into a shared services agreement with Ziegler pursuant to which Ziegler provides certain support services to us, including providing office space and administrative support, accounting support, information technology services, which include hosting and maintaining a separate and secure website, email service and other software necessary to operate our business. Furthermore, Mr. Sweet, our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer previously served as an officer of the Ziegler Funds. Further, Mr. Baumgartner, one of our trustees, is an officer with Ziegler and will have a conflict with respect to any matters that require consideration by our board of trustees that occur between us and Ziegler. Even if we have actionable rights, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements or under other agreements we may have with these parties, including employment agreements, because of our desire to maintain positive relationships with the individuals who are parties to these agreements. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our UPREIT structure. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our trustees and officers have duties to us under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, as general partner, have fiduciary duties to our operating partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our operating partnership. Our duties, as general partner, to our operating partnership and its limited partners may come into conflict with the duties of our trustees and officers. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibits such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that we, as the general partner of the operating partnership, and our trustees and officers are not be liable or accountable in damages to our operating partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we or our trustees of officers acted in good faith. In addition, our operating partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective officers and trustees, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the operating partnership, provided that our operating partnership will not indemnify any such person for (1) acts or omissions committed in bad faith or that were the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. 50 Table of Contents Our declaration of trust restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than our initial REIT taxable year. Subject to certain exceptions, our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder from owning beneficially or constructively more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of any class or series by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest and to be subject to our declaration of trust’s ownership limit. Our declaration of trust also prohibits, among other prohibitions, any person from owning our shares of beneficial interest that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our beneficial interest in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes of control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common shares or that our shareholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: · “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our shares at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes certain minimum price and/or supermajority shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and · “control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares,” subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights with respect to their control shares, except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Pursuant to the statute, our board of trustees has by resolution exempted any business combination between us and any other person from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of trustees (including a majority of trustees who are not affiliates or associates of such person). In addition, our bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions of our shares from the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of trustees may at any time alter or repeal the resolution exempting certain businesses from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may at any time amend or eliminate the provision of our bylaws exempting acquisitions of our shares from the control share provisions of the MGCL. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions, some of which (for example, a classified board) are not currently applicable to us. If implemented, these provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common shareholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Pursuant to our declaration of trust, we have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of trustees. We could increase the number of authorized shares, classify and reclassify unissued shares and issue shares without shareholder approval. 51 Table of Contents Our board of trustees, without shareholder approval, has the power under our declaration of trust to amend our declaration of trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we are authorized to issue, and to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares. In addition, under our declaration of trust, our board of trustees has the power to classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares into one or more classes or series of shares and set or change the preference, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption for such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common shares or preferred shares with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common shares. Although our board of trustees has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred shares that could, depending on the terms of such class or series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or that our shareholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without shareholder approval. We may change our business, investment and financing strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this report. In particular, a change in our investment strategy, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations. In addition, we may in the future increase the use of leverage at times and in amounts that we, in our discretion, deem prudent, and such decision would not be subject to shareholder approval. Furthermore, our board of trustees may determine that healthcare properties do not offer the potential for attractive risk-adjusted returns for an investment strategy. Changes to our strategies with regards to the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event that we take certain actions which are not in your best interests. Our declaration of trust eliminates the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: · actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or · active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our present and former trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws obligate us to indemnify each present and former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our trustee and officers. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and trustees granting them express indemnification rights. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Our declaration of trust provides that a trustee may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. 52 Table of Contents Provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay, or make more difficult, unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some shareholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: · redemption rights; · a requirement that we may not be removed as the general partner of our operating partnership without our consent; · transfer restrictions on OP units; · our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement and to cause the operating partnership to issue units with terms that could delay, defer or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or our operating partnership without the consent of the limited partners; and · the right of the limited partners to consent to direct or indirect transfers of the general partnership interest, including as a result of a merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, in the event that such transfer requires approval by our common shareholders. Our declaration of trust and bylaws, Maryland law and the partnership agreement of our operating partnership also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or that our shareholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest. Compensation awards to our management may not correlate to or correspond with our financial results or share price. The compensation, nominating and governance committee of our board of trustees is responsible for overseeing our compensation and employee benefit plans and practices, including our incentive compensation and equity-based compensation plans. Our compensation, nominating and governance committee has significant discretion in structuring compensation packages and may make compensation decisions based upon any number of factors. As a result, compensation awards may not correlate to or correspond with our financial results or the share price of our common shares. We may give bonuses, grant equity awards and otherwise highly compensate our management even if we are performing poorly. Our operating partnership may issue additional OP units to third parties without the consent of our shareholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and could have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, we owned 85.3% of the outstanding partnership interests in our operating partnership. Our operating partnership may, in connection with our acquisition of properties or otherwise, issue additional OP units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and could affect the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our shareholders. Because you will not directly own OP units, you will not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of our operating partnership. Risks Related to Our Qualification and Operation as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT, or failure to remain qualified as a REIT, would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our shareholders because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and 53 Table of Contents · unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the value of our shares of beneficial interest. See “Part I, Item 1. Business - Taxation” for a discussion of material U.S. federal income tax consequences relating to us and our common shares. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, any taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” that we may form would be subject to regular corporate federal, state and local taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to shareholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal corporate income tax. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares of beneficial interest. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to dispose of our properties. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property other than Foreclosure Property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax equal to 100% of net gain upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, we cannot assure you that we can comply with the safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of our properties or may conduct such sales through any TRS that we may form, which would be subject to federal and state income taxation. 54 Table of Contents We may pay taxable dividends in our common shares and cash, in which case shareholders may sell our common shares to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common shares at the election of each shareholder. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in shares as taxable dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS issued a revenue procedure creating a temporary safe harbor that authorized publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/share dividends, but that temporary safe harbor has expired. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and common shares. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common shares, taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common shares and a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. We do not currently intend to pay taxable dividends using both our common shares and cash, although we may choose to do so in the future. The ability of our board of trustees to revoke our REIT qualification without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our declaration of trust provides that our board of trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our shareholders. Any ownership of a TRS we may form in the future will be subject to limitations and our transactions with a TRS will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in any TRS that we may form for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations and will structure our transactions with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm’s length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% REIT subsidiaries limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax. The formation of a TRS lessee would increase our overall tax liability. We may, in the future, form one or more TRS lessees to lease “qualified health care properties” from us. Any TRS lessee we may form would be subject to federal and state income tax on its taxable income, which would consist of the revenues from the qualified health care properties leased by the TRS lessee, net of the operating expenses for such properties and rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of a TRS lessee would allow us to participate in the operating income from our properties leased to the TRS lessee on an after tax basis in addition to receiving rent, that operating income would be fully subject to federal and state income tax. The after-tax net income of a TRS lessee would be available for distribution to us. If leases of our properties are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 55 Table of Contents To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as “rents from real property.” Rents paid to our operating partnership by third party lessees and any TRS lessee that we may form in the future pursuant to the leases of our properties will constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If a TRS lessee failed to qualify as a TRS or the facility operators engaged by a TRS lessee did not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours would not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We may, in the future, lease certain of our properties that qualify as “qualified health care properties” to a TRS lessee. So long as that TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to our properties that are managed by an independent facility operator that qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” We would seek to structure any future arrangements with a TRS lessee such that the TRS lessee would qualify to be treated as a TRS for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge the status of a TRS for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying a TRS lessee from treatment as a TRS, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and a significant portion of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, if the facility operators engaged by a TRS lessee do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the facility operators that would enter into a management contract with any TRS lessee must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by such a TRS lessee to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a facility operator must not own, directly or indirectly, more than 35% of our outstanding shares and no person or group of persons can own 35% or more of our outstanding shares and more than 35% of the ownership interests of the facility operator, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds are complex. Although we would monitor ownership of our shares by any facility operators and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common shares. The share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit and other restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares contained in our declaration of trust may inhibit market activity in our shares of beneficial interest and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2013, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of beneficial interest at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our shares of beneficial interest under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares of beneficial interest during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year after 2013. To help insure that we meet these tests, our declaration of trust restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our beneficial interest. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our trustees to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, our declaration of trust prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest. Our board of trustees may not grant an exemption from this restriction to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the number or value of our outstanding shares would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. This as well as other restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of trustees determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. shareholders that are taxed at 56 Table of Contents individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations. If our operating partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our operating partnership will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our operating partnership will not be subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, will be allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of our operating partnership’s income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of our operating partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our operating partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership could cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. The failure of a mezzanine loan, including the Mezzanine Loan, to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In general, in order for a loan to be treated as a qualifying real estate asset producing qualifying income for purposes of the federal income tax asset and income tests applicable to REITs, the loan must be secured by real property. We may originate (in connection with a forward purchase or option to purchase contract) or acquire mezzanine loans that are not directly secured by real property but instead secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is not secured by real estate would, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, be treated by the IRS as a qualifying real estate asset. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law and in many cases it may not be possible for us to meet all the requirements of the safe harbor. We cannot provide assurance that any mezzanine loan in which we invest, including the Mezzanine Loan, would be treated as a qualifying asset producing qualifying income for REIT qualification purposes. If any such loan fails either the REIT income or asset tests, we may be disqualified as a REIT. Furthermore, if we participate in any appreciation in value of real property securing a mortgage loan and the IRS characterizes such “shared appreciation mortgage” as equity rather than debt, for example, because of a large interest in cash flow of the borrower, we may be required to recognize income, gains, and other items with respect to the real property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This could affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may be unable to make distributions which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. While we expect to make regular quarterly distributions to the holders of our common shares, if sufficient cash is not available for distribution from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital, borrow to provide funds for such distributions, or reduce the amount of such distributions. To the extent we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. If cash available for distribution generated by our assets is less than expected, or if such cash available for distribution decreases in future periods from expected levels, our inability to make distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. 57 Table of Contents All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and will be based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future, and our inability to make distributions, or to make distributions at expected levels, could result in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. The consolidated and combined financial statements of our Predecessor may not be representative of our financial statements as an independent public company. The consolidated and combined financial statements of our Predecessor that are included in this report do not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the periods presented. Furthermore, this financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows will be in the future. It is not possible for us to accurately estimate all adjustments needed to reflect all the significant changes that may occur in our future cost structure, funding and operations. See “Part I, Item 6. Selected Financial Data,” “Part I, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Part I. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 58 Table of Contents 