D. Risk factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. Uncertainty following the Asset Sale could adversely affect our business and operations. The completion of the Closing and Asset Sale could cause disruptions to our business and business relationships, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For example, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us that may adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key personnel, and parties with which we have business relationships, including customers, potential customers and distributors, may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with us in a manner that negatively impacts us. BioMarin has the ability to make important decisions affecting our business and upon the effectiveness of our liquidation the shares of our company will be extinguished for no additional consideration. As of April 15, 2015, approximately 96.8% of our ordinary shares were owned by BioMarin. As a majority holder of the voting shares, BioMarin is entitled to elect all of our directors, to approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of our ordinary shares, including adopting amendments to our articles of association and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, and to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. BioMarin has effective control over our affairs, policies and operations, such as the appointment of management, future issuances of our securities, the payments of distributions by us, if any, in respect of our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and BioMarin’s interests may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of investors. In addition, all future decisions regarding the development of our product candidates will be made by BioMarin and we will have no influence on that decision-making process. We are currently in liquidation, and upon the effectiveness of our liquidation, the shares of our company will be extinguished for no additional consideration. We no longer intend to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which will reduce the amount of publicly available information about us and negatively affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares. We filed a notice of termination of registration under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act on March 23, 2015. As a result, our obligations to file reports under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act with the SEC were suspended on such date and will terminate on June 21, 2015. We currently have no intention of filing any reports with the SEC in the future. In absence of filings with the SEC, there may be limited publicly available information available about us, which will likely reduce the liquidity of our ordinary shares and increase the risks of engaging in transactions in our ordinary shares. 6 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. We are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. 