Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common units involves a high degree of risk. Security holders and potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this report. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business and our financial condition and results of operations. In this event, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and unitholders could lose part or all of their investment. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution of $0.30 per unit, or $1.20 per unit per year, which requires us to have available cash of approximately $10.5 million per quarter, or $41.8 million per year, based on the number of outstanding common and subordinated units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: ·the volumes of light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil we handle; ·the terminaling and storage fees with respect to volumes that we handle; ·damage to pipelines facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; ·leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; ·planned or unplanned shutdowns of the refineries and industrial production facilities owned by or supplying our customers; ·prevailing economic and market conditions; ·difficulties in collecting our receivables because of credit or financial problems of customers; ·the effects of new or expanded health, environmental and safety regulations; ·governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation of the industries in which we operate; ·changes in tax laws; ·weather conditions; and ·force majeure. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ·the level of capital expenditures we make; ·the cost of acquisitions; ·our debt service requirements and other liabilities; ·fluctuations in our working capital needs; ·our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; ·restrictions contained in debt agreements to which we are a party; and ·the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. 22 Our business would be adversely affected if the operations of our customers experienced significant interruptions. In certain circumstances, the obligations of many of our key customers under their terminal services agreements may be reduced, suspended or terminated, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the uninterrupted operations of certain facilities owned or operated by third parties, such as the pipelines, barges and retail fuel distribution assets, as well as refineries and other production facilities that produce products we handle. Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities or to or from our customers for any reason would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned or operated by our customers and their suppliers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control, such as: ·catastrophic events, including hurricanes and floods; ·explosion, breakage, accidents to machinery, storage tanks or facilities; ·environmental remediation; ·labor difficulties; and ·disruptions in the supply of products to or from our facilities, including the failure of third-party pipelines or other facilities. Additionally, terrorist attacks and acts of sabotage could target oil and gas production facilities, refineries, processing plants, terminals and other infrastructure facilities. Our terminal services agreements with many of our key customers provide that, if any of a number of events occur, including certain of those events described above, which we refer to as events of force majeure, and the event significantly delays or renders performance impossible with respect to a facility, usually for a specified minimum period of days, our customer’s obligations would be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a customer’s fixed storage services fees may be reduced or suspended, even if we are contractually restricted from recontracting out the storage space in question during such force majeure period, or the contract may be subject to termination. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured against such risks. As a result, our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our financial results depend on the demand for the light refined products, heavy refined products, crude oil and other related services that we perform at our terminals, among other factors, and general economic downturns could result in lower demand for these products for a sustained period of time. Any sustained decrease in demand for light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil related services in the markets served by our terminals could result in a significant reduction in storage usage in our terminals, which would reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our financial results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within certain regions, including the substantial decrease in the price of crude oil and petroleum products that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2014 and has continued into 2015. While we generally view lower prices for the products we store as positive for terminal operators, other factors associated with the current market conditions may offset any benefits resulting from the decrease in prices. If economic and market conditions remain uncertain or adverse conditions persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: ·the impact of weather on demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil; ·the level of domestic oil and gas production, both on a stand-alone basis and as compared to the level of foreign oil and gas production; ·the level of foreign oil and gas production and any disruption of those supplies; ·higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline and diesel; ·an increase in automotive engine fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or technological advances by manufacturers; ·the increased use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Current laws will require a significant increase in the quantity of ethanol and biodiesel used in transportation fuels between now and 2022. Such an increase could have a material impact on the volume of fuels loaded at our terminals; 23 ·a substantial decrease in the market price of crude oil that leads to drastically reduced domestic crude oil and gas development; and ·an increase in the market price of crude oil that leads to higher refined petroleum product prices, which may reduce demand for refined petroleum products and drive demand for alternative products. Market prices for refined products and crude oil are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in global and regional supply that are beyond our control, and increases in the price of crude oil may result in a lower demand for refined petroleum products. Any decrease in supply and marketing activities may result in reduced storage volumes at our terminal facilities, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on Apex and a relatively limited number of our other customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, Apex or any one or more of our other customers could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers, including Apex and Phillips 66. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 78% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014, including Apex and Phillips 66, which accounted for approximately 37% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Because of Apex’s position as a major customer of our business, events which adversely affect Apex’s creditworthiness or business operations may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If Apex is unable to meet its minimum volume commitment for any reason, then our revenues would decline and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be reduced. Therefore, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Apex, many of which are similar to the business risks we face. In addition, if we acquire additional terminals from Apex pursuant to our right of first offer or otherwise, or if we enter into new or expanded agreements, the percentage of our revenue generated by Apex may increase. In particular, these business risks include the following: ·Apex’s inability to negotiate favorable terms with its distribution and marketing customers; ·contract non-performance by Apex’s customers; ·Apex and our customers’ inability to obtain financing on reasonable terms. Apex has a working capital credit facility that provides common terms and conditions pursuant to which individual banks that are a party to the facility may choose to make loans to it from time to time; however, no lender has an obligation to make any additional future loans to Apex; ·a material decline in refined product supplies, which could increase Apex’s terminaling, storage and throughput costs on a per-barrel basis; and ·various operational risks to which Apex’s business is subject. In addition, some of our customers may have material financial and liquidity issues or may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger, better capitalized companies. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we are unable to renew or extend the terminaling services agreements we have with Apex, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be reduced. The initial terms of Apex’s obligations under its terminaling services agreements with us ranged from one to five years based on the terminal location. If Apex fails to use our facilities and services after expiration of the applicable commitment and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced. 24 Apex’s or our parent’s level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and our credit ratings and profile. A high level of indebtedness at Apex increases the risk that it may default on its obligations, including under its terminaling services agreements with us. Apex partially finances its operations through working capital borrowings, which may at times be significant. The covenants contained in the agreements governing Apex’s and our parent’s outstanding and future indebtedness may limit their ability to make certain investments or to sell assets, which also may reduce their ability to sell additional assets to us. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our financial results and cash available for distribution. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Approximately 78% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were attributable to our ten largest customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use the storage capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes, floods or severe storms, for which we may not be adequately insured. A majority of our operations are currently located in the Gulf Coast, Midwest and East Coast regions and are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes, floods or severe storms, which have historically impacted such regions with some regularity. For example, operations at our Newark terminal were suspended for 23 days as a result of Hurricane Sandy in 2012. During 2014, a third party vessel damaged the ship dock at our Galveston terminal and the dock was unavailable for 17 days while temporary repairs were completed. We may also be affected by factors such as adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures, disruptions in supply infrastructure or logistics and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations are exposed to other potential natural disasters, including tornadoes, storms, floods and earthquakes. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Certain of the insurance policies covering entities and their operations that were contributed to us as a part of our IPO also provide coverage to entities that were not contributed to us. The coverage available under those insurance policies has historically been allocated among the entities contributed to us and the entities that were not contributed to us. This allocation may result in limiting the amount of recovery available to us for purposes of covered losses. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In addition sub-limits have been imposed for certain risks. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Reduced volatility in energy prices, certain market structures (including backwardated markets) or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in refined petroleum products or crude oil, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage services. We have constructed and continue to construct new storage facilities in response to increased customer demand for storage. Many of our competitors have also built new storage facilities. The demand for new storage has resulted in part from our customers’ desire to have the ability to take advantage of profit opportunities created by volatility in the prices of refined petroleum products and crude oil. A condition in which future prices of refined products and crude oil are higher than the then-current prices, also called market contango, is favorable to commercial strategies that are associated with storage capacity as it allows a party to simultaneously purchase refined petroleum products or crude oil at current prices for storage and sell at higher prices for future delivery. Wide contango spreads combined with price structure volatility generally have a favorable impact on our results. If the price of refined products and crude oil is lower in the future than the then-current price, also called market backwardation, there is little incentive to store these commodities as current prices are above future delivery prices. In either case, margins can be improved when prices are volatile. The periods between these two market structures are referred to as transition periods. If the market is in a backwardated to transitional structure, our results from operations may be less than those generated during the more favorable contango market conditions. If the prices of refined products and crude oil become relatively stable, or if federal and/or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing those commodities, demand for our storage services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to renew contracts for our storage services or be forced to reduce the rates we charge for our storage services, either of which would reduce the amount of cash we generate. 25 Some of our current terminal services agreements are automatically renewing on a short-term basis, and may be terminated at the end of the current renewal term upon requisite notice. If one or more of our current terminal services agreements is terminated and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Some of our terminal services agreements currently in effect are operating in the automatic renewal phase of the contract that begins upon the expiration of the primary contract term. Our terminal services agreements generally have primary contract terms that range from one year to five years. Upon expiration of the primary contract term, these agreements renew automatically for successive renewal terms that range from one to three years unless earlier terminated by either party upon the giving of the requisite notice, generally ranging from one to 12 months prior to the expiration of the applicable renewal term. As of December 31, 2014, after giving effect to our new terminaling services agreements with Apex, the capacity-weighted average remaining term of our terminaling services agreements was approximately 1.8 years. Terminal services agreements that account for an aggregate of 34% of our expected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2015 could be terminated by our customers without penalty within the same period. If any one or more of our terminal services agreements is terminated and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, we may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall in revenue or increase in costs. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs if modifications to our terminals are required by a new or renegotiated terminal services agreement. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other terminals that are able to supply our customers with comparable storage capacity at a lower price could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other terminals that may be able to supply our customers with integrated terminaling services on a more competitive basis. We compete with national, regional and local terminal and storage companies, including major integrated oil companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Our ability to compete could be harmed by factors we cannot control, including: ·our competitors’ construction of new assets or redeployment of existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve; ·the perception that another company may provide better service; and ·the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to our customers’ operations. Any combination of these factors could result in our customers utilizing the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services, or our being required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. A portion of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. The construction of a new terminal, or the expansion of an existing terminal, such as by increasing storage capacity or otherwise, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects. As a result, we may construct new facilities that are not able to attract enough customers to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 26 If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. We may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third party pipelines to provide destinations for increased storage services. Even if we receive sufficient multi-year contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects and we complete our construction projects as planned, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. For instance, if we build a new terminal, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, generally 12 to 24 months, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in our cash available for distribution per unit. If we are unable to make acquisitions from third parties or our sponsors because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or we are outbid by competitors, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; •an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; •an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and newly acquired assets; •the assumption of unknown liabilities; •limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; •mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; •the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. 27 Our right of first offer to acquire certain of Apex’s existing terminal assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets. Our omnibus agreement provides us with a right of first offer on Apex’s existing terminal assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future, subject to certain exceptions. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions pursuant to this right will depend upon, among other things, Apex’s willingness to offer a subject asset for sale and obtain any necessary consents, the determination that the asset is suitable for our business at that particular time, our ability to agree on a mutually acceptable price, our ability to negotiate an acceptable purchase agreement and terminal services agreement with respect to the asset and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and Apex is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, and we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications. Various federal and state agencies prescribe specific product quality specifications for refined products, including vapor pressure, sulfur content, ethanol content and biodiesel content. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our product volumes at our terminals, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, mandated increases in use of renewable fuels could require the construction of additional storage and blending equipment. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Violations of product quality laws attributable to our operations could subject us to significant fines and penalties as well as negative publicity. In addition, changes in the quality of the products we receive on our pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. We have a responsibility to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. Off-specification product distributed for public use, even if not a violation of specific product quality laws, could result in poor engine performance or even engine damage. This type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages caused by the off-specification fuel or could result in negative publicity, impacting our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Revenues we generate from excess storage fees vary based upon the product volume handled at our terminals and the activity levels of our customers. Any short- or long-term decrease in the demand for the light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil we handle, or any interruptions to the operations of certain of our customers, could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we generated approximately 1% of our revenues from excess storage fees, which our storage customers pay us to receive product volume on their behalf that exceeds the base storage services contemplated in their agreed upon monthly storage services fee. This percentage was lower than the prior year and there is no certainty that this trend will not continue. The revenues we generate from excess storage fees vary based upon the product volume accepted at or withdrawn from our terminals, and our customers are not obligated to pay us any excess storage fees unless we move product volume across our pipelines or docks on their behalf. If one or more of our customers were to slow or suspend its operations, or otherwise experience a decrease in demand for our services, our revenues under our agreements with such customers would be reduced or suspended, resulting in a decrease in the revenues we generate. Any reduction in the capability of our customers to obtain access to barge facilities, third-party pipelines or other transportation facilities, or to continue utilizing them at current costs, could cause a reduction of volumes transported through our terminals. Many users of our terminals are dependent upon third-party barge operations, pipelines or other transportation providers to receive and deliver light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of these modes of transportation would result in reduced volumes transported through our terminals. Similarly, increased demand for these services could result in reduced allocations to our existing customers, which also could reduce volumes transported through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. In addition, if the costs to us or our storage service customers to transport refined products or crude oil significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. Any such increases in cost, interruptions or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28 Many of our terminal and storage assets have been in service for several decades, which could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our terminal and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many decades. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which are complex and frequently changing. Our operations involve the transport and storage of light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil and are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the gathering, storage, handling and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, management and disposal of wastes, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Compliance with this complex array of federal, state, and local laws and implementing regulations is difficult and may require significant capital expenditures and operating costs to mitigate or prevent pollution. Moreover, our business is inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment and neighboring areas, for which we may incur substantial liabilities to investigate and remediate. Failure to comply with applicable environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, permit revocations, and injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health, and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. These expenditures or costs for environmental, health, and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at our facilities. Our terminal facilities have been used for transportation, storage and distribution of light refined products, heavy refined products and crude oil for many years. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons and wastes from time to time may have been spilled or released on or under the terminal properties. In addition, the terminal properties were previously owned and operated by other parties and those parties from time to time also may have spilled or released hydrocarbons or wastes. The terminal properties are subject to federal, state and local laws that impose investigatory and remedial obligations, some of which are joint and several or strict liability obligations without regard to fault, to address and prevent environmental contamination. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to any soil and groundwater contamination that occurs on our properties, even if the contamination was caused by prior owners and operators of our facilities. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our storage services. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our services and the demand for our services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns). 29 In recent years, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. Depending on the scope of a particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our operations could become subject to GHG-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA has adopted regulations controlling GHG emissions under its existing Clean Air Act authority. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. For example, the EPA issued a rule that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permitting program. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. None of our facilities currently generate enough greenhouse gasses to be subject to this reporting requirement under this rule, however, we will continue to monitor the level of emissions and will file the appropriate reports for any facilities that may become subject to such reporting requirements in the future. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the refined products and crude oil we store. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged for our services, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. Many scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate change that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. We have approximately $200 million available for future borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and 30 •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. Our revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; •make certain investments and acquisitions; •make capital expenditures; •incur certain liens or permit them to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; •merge or consolidate with another company; and •transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure our unitholders that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. Such event of default would also permit our lenders to foreclose on our assets serving as collateral for our obligations under our revolving credit facility. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Our revolving credit facility will also have cross default provisions that apply to any other material indebtedness that we may have. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our new revolving credit facility or future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 31 The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our customers’ ability to hedge risks associated with their business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations relating to, among other things, swaps, participants in the derivatives markets, clearing of swaps and reporting of swap transactions. In general, the Dodd-Frank Act subjects swap transactions and participants to greater regulation and supervision by the CFTC and the SEC and will require many swaps to be cleared through a CFTC- or SEC-registered clearing facility and executed on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. Among the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may affect derivative transactions are those relating to establishment of capital and margin requirements for certain derivative participants; establishment of business conduct standards, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; and imposition of position limits. The new legislation and regulations promulgated thereunder could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of counterparties available to us or our customers. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. Upon the completion of our IPO, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including the rules thereunder that will require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting control may not meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal control may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective control over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, which we refer to as Section 404. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, in addition to our limited accounting personnel and management resources, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firms, future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal control, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and have made our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. While our assessment is that we were able to establish satisfactory internal controls, pursuant to the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” which may be up to five full fiscal years following our IPO. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or surrounding areas could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries, or terminals could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 Cyber attacks that circumvent our security measures and other breaches of our information security measures could disrupt our operations and result in increased costs. We utilize technology systems to operate our assets and manage our businesses. A cyber attack or other security breach of our information technology systems could result in a breach of critical operational or financial controls and lead to a disruption of our operations, commercial activities or financial processes. Additionally, we rely on third-party systems that could also be subject to cyber attacks or security breaches, and the failure of which could have a significant adverse effect on the operation of our assets. We and the operators of the third-party systems on which we depend may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent every emerging type of cyber attack, and such an attack, or the additional security measures undertaken to prevent such an attack, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and information about our customers, suppliers and other counterparties, and personally identifiable information of our employees, on our information technology networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored therein could be accessed, publicly disseminated, lost or stolen. Any such access, dissemination or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, or could disrupt our operations, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates, including our sponsors, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. The controlling shareholders own and control our general partner and have appointed all of the directors and officers of our general partner, some of whom will also be directors and officers of our parent and Apex. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of its owners, the controlling shareholders. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our sponsors and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of our sponsors over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: •our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the controlling shareholders, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its duties to our unitholders; •neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our parent or Apex to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of our parent and Apex have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of their stockholders. Our parent or Apex may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets; •our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner’s liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; •except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; 33 •our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; •our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; •our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; •our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $30.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to Apex and the controlling shareholders in respect of the incentive distribution rights; •our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; •our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; •our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; •our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; •disputes may arise under our terminaling services agreements with Apex, including with respect to the interpretation of the agreement and fee redeterminations or renegotiation thereof; •our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including Apex’s obligations under the terminaling services agreements and our general partner’s and Apex’s obligations under the omnibus agreement; and •our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. 34 Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units as to distribution or liquidation, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash available to distribute to our unitholders. Actions taken by our general partner may affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders or accelerate the right to convert subordinated units. The amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders is affected by decisions of our general partner regarding such matters as: ·the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales; ·cash expenditures; ·borrowings; ·the issuance of additional units; and ·the creation, reduction or increase of reserves in any quarter. Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units. In addition, our general partner may use an amount, initially equal to $30.0 million, which would not otherwise constitute available cash from operating surplus, in order to permit the payment of cash distributions on its affiliates’ units and our sponsors’ incentive distribution rights. All of these actions may affect the amount of cash distributed to our unitholders and our general partner and may facilitate the conversion of subordinated units into common units. In addition, borrowings by us and our affiliates do not constitute a breach of any duty owed by our general partner to our unitholders, including borrowings that have the purpose or effect of: ·enabling our general partner or its affiliates to receive distributions on any subordinated units held by them; or ·accelerating the expiration of the subordination period. For example, in the event we have not generated sufficient cash from our operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and our subordinated units, our partnership agreement permits us to borrow working capital funds, which would enable us to make this distribution on all outstanding units. 35 Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the parties where the language in our partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us or any limited partner. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: (1) how to allocate business opportunities among us and its other affiliates; (2) whether to exercise its limited call right; (3) how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; (4) whether to exercise its registration rights; (5) whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and (6) whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement; •provides that the general partner will have no liability to us or our limited partners for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith; •generally provides that in a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or other conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. In addition, our general partner may seek the approval of such resolution from the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, but is not required to do so. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of another conflict of interest is not approved by our public common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest is either on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or is “fair and reasonable” to us, considering the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us, then it will be presumed that in making its decision, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us challenging such decision, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; •provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers or directors, as the cases may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful. 36 In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our parent and other affiliates of our general partner, including Apex, may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner is restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including our parent and Apex, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Our parent and Apex currently hold substantial interests in other companies in the terminaling business. Our parent and Apex may make investments and purchase entities that acquire, own and operate terminaling businesses. These investments and acquisitions may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. Therefore, our parent and Apex may compete with us for investment opportunities and our parent and Apex may own interests in entities that compete with us. Our sponsors, as the initial owners of our incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to them in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of their board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our sponsors, as the initial owners of our incentive distribution rights, have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and payments have been paid on incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive whole fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed the adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our sponsors, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on the same percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution as the current target distribution levels. If the owners of a majority of the incentive distribution rights elect to reset the target distribution levels, the owners of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units which would have entitled them to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in such prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to the owners of the incentive distribution rights on their respective incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the owners of the incentive distribution rights would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that the owners of the incentive distribution rights could exercise this reset election at a time when they are experiencing, or expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions they receive related to their respective incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to the owners of the incentive distribution rights in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by the controlling shareholders, as a result of their owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 37 Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. Unitholders are initially unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2⁄3% of all our outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. At February 28, 2015, our parent owned, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 65.7% of our common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of our subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At February 28, 2015, our parent owned approximately 35.0% of our 18,375,507 outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our sponsors will own approximately 72.6% of our outstanding common units. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and 38 •the market price of the common units may decline. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by our parent or other large holders. At February 28, 2015, we have 18,375,507 common units and 16,485,507 subordinated units outstanding. Sales by our sponsors or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we have agreed to provide registration rights to our parent. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts a unitholder’s voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner, and there are no limits on the amount that we may be required to pay. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including our parent, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. 39 Our general partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by our parent) after the subordination period has ended. At December 31, 2014, our parent owned, directly or indirectly, approximately 68.77% of the outstanding limited partner units. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. A lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. During 2014, the market price of our common units fluctuated from a low of $17.50 to a high of $23.70. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our quarterly distributions; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •general economic conditions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •future sales of our common units; and •the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made non-recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. Our unitholders could be liable for our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or 40 •our unitholders’ right to act with each other to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner, which is controlled by our parent, has full power and authority to do all things, other than those items that require unitholder approval or with respect to which our general partner has sought conflicts committee approval, on such terms as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to conduct our business, including, but not limited to, the following: ·the making of any expenditures, the lending or borrowing of money, the assumption or guarantee of or other contracting for, indebtedness and other liabilities, the issuance of evidences of indebtedness, including indebtedness that is convertible into our securities, and the incurring of any other obligations; ·the purchase, sale or other acquisition or disposition of our securities, or the issuance of additional options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to our securities; ·the acquisition, disposition, mortgage, pledge, encumbrance, hypothecation or exchange of any or all of our assets; ·the negotiation, execution and performance of any contracts, conveyances or other instruments; ·the distribution of our cash; ·the selection and dismissal of employees and agents, outside attorneys, accountants, consultants and contractors and the determination of their compensation and other terms of employment or hiring; ·the maintenance of insurance for our benefit and the benefit of our partners; ·the formation of, or acquisition of an interest in, the contribution of property to, and the making of loans to, any limited or general partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company or other entity; ·the control of any matters affecting our rights and obligations, including the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity, otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation, arbitration or mediation, the incurring of legal expense and the settlement of claims and litigation; ·the indemnification of any person against liabilities and contingencies to the extent permitted by law; ·the making of tax, regulatory and other filings or the rendering of periodic or other reports to governmental or other agencies having jurisdiction over our business or assets; and ·the entering into of agreements with any of its affiliates to render services to us or to itself in the discharge of its duties as our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner must act in “good faith” when making decisions on our behalf, and our partnership agreement further provides that in order for a determination to be made in “good faith,” our general partner must subjectively believe that the determination is not adverse to the best interests of our partnership. 41 Contracts between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other hand, will not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations. Our partnership agreement allows our general partner to determine, in good faith, any amounts to pay itself or its affiliates for any services rendered to us. Our general partner may also enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of its affiliates on our behalf. Our general partner will determine, in good faith, the terms of any arrangements or transactions. Similarly, agreements, contracts or arrangements between us and our general partner and its affiliates will not be required to be negotiated on an arm’s-length basis, although, in some circumstances, our general partner may determine that the conflicts committee may make a determination on our behalf with respect to such arrangements. Our general partner and its affiliates have no obligation to permit us to use any facilities or assets of our general partner and its affiliates, except as may be provided in contracts entered into specifically for such use. There is no obligation of our general partner and its affiliates to enter into any contracts of this kind. Common unitholders have no right to enforce obligations of our general partner and its affiliates under agreements with us. Agreements between us, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates, on the other hand, do not grant to the unitholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of our general partner and its affiliates in our favor. Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for us have been retained by our general partner. Attorneys, independent accountants and others who perform services for us are selected by our general partner or our conflicts committee and may perform services for our general partner and its affiliates. We may retain separate counsel for ourselves or the holders of common units in the event of a conflict of interest between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us or the holders of common units, on the other, depending on the nature of the conflict. We do not intend to do so in most cases. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our classification as a partnership. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 42 Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress and the President propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income is taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 43 Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of unitholder common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units, may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. A tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder’s sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we will adopt. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. 44 We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50.0% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the Partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Illinois, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. Several of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Our unitholders should consult their tax advisor. 45 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 