Item 1A. Risk Factors General Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of net losses and future profitability is uncertain. We have incurred net losses from our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we realized net losses of $7.3 million and $12.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had total accumulated deficit of approximately $193.8 million. Although we have initiated plans to reduce our operating losses and achieve profitability, we may continue to incur losses if we are not able to execute our plans. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property, it may adversely affect the value of our technology and devices and future revenues and operating income. Our business and competitive positions are dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, employment, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements and protective contractual provisions with other third parties. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing trademark applications and U.S., foreign and international patent 12 Table of Contents applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We do not believe that any single patent, trademark or other intellectual property right of ours, or combination of our intellectual property rights, is likely to prevent others from competing with us using a similar business model. There are many issued patents and patent applications held by others in our industry and the electronics field. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies, or design around our patents or other intellectual property to avoid infringement. In addition, we may not apply for a patent relating to products or processes that are patentable, we may fail to receive any patent for which we apply or have applied, and any patent owned by us or issued to us could be circumvented, challenged, invalidated, or held to be unenforceable, or rights granted thereunder may not adequately protect our technology or provide a competitive advantage to us. If a third party challenges the validity of any patents or proprietary rights of ours, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming. Although third parties may infringe on our patents and other intellectual property rights, we may not be aware of any such infringement, or we may be aware of potential infringement but elect not to seek to prevent such infringement or pursue any claim of infringement, and the third party may continue its potentially infringing activities. Any decision whether or not to take further action in response to potential infringement of our patent or other intellectual property rights may be based on a variety of factors, such as the potential costs and benefits of taking such action, and business and legal issues and circumstances. Litigation of claims of infringement of a patent or other intellectual property rights may be costly and time-consuming, may divert the attention of key Company personnel, and may not be successful or result in any significant recovery of compensation for any infringement or enjoining of any infringing activity. Litigation or licensing discussions may also involve or lead to counterclaims that could be brought by a potential infringer to challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require our employees, consultants, contractors and outside collaborators to enter into written nondisclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide adequate protection to prevent any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. Also, others may independently develop the same or substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our ability to innovate or market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success is dependent in part upon our ability to avoid infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others. Our industry and the electronics field are characterized by a large number of patents, patent filings and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Competitors may have filed applications for, or have been issued, patents, and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to devices, services or processes that we compete with. We may not be aware of all of the patents or patent applications potentially adverse to our interests that may have been filed or issued to others. U.S. patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office. If other companies have or obtain patents relating to our products or services, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services. 13 Table of Contents Based on the litigious nature of our industry and the electronics field and the fact that we may pose a competitive threat to some companies who own or control various patents, it is possible that one or more third parties may assert a patent infringement claim seeking damages and to enjoin the manufacture, use, sale and marketing of our products and services. If a third party asserts that we have infringed on its patent or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming and could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services. Lawsuits may have already been filed against us without our knowledge. Additionally, we may receive notices from other third parties suggesting or asserting that we are infringing their patents and inviting us to license such patents. We do not believe that we are infringing on any other party's patents or that a license to any such patents is necessary. Should litigation over such patents arise, we intend to vigorously defend against any allegation of infringement. If we are found to infringe on the patent or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses or rights to the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture, market or sell our products and services. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we succeed in obtaining such licenses, payments under such licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which may be licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make a license unnecessary, we may be unable to manufacture, use, market or sell our products and services, which could significantly affect our ability to achieve, sustain or grow our commercial business. If we are unable to successfully integrate recently acquired companies and technology, we may not realize the benefits anticipated and our future growth may be adversely affected. In the past two years we have grown through acquisitions of companies and technology, including our acquisition of Mednet Healthcare Technologies, Inc. in February 2014. Acquisitions involve risks associated with our assumption of the liabilities of an acquired company, which may be liabilities that we were or are unaware of at the time of the acquisition, potential write-offs of acquired assets and potential loss of the acquired company's key employees or customers. Physician, patient and customer satisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or device could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation. Additionally, potential disputes with the seller of an acquired business or its employees, suppliers or customers and amortization expenses related to intangible assets could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions, our business may be disrupted and our operating results and prospects may be harmed. Furthermore, integrating acquired companies or new technologies to our business may prove more difficult than we anticipate. We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating our operations, technologies, services and personnel with that of the acquired company, and our financial and management resources may be diverted from our existing operations. Offices in multiple states create a strain on our ability to effectively manage our operations and key personnel. If we elect to consolidate our facilities, we may lose key personnel unwilling to relocate to the consolidated facility, may have difficulty hiring appropriate personnel at the consolidated facility and may have difficulty providing continuity of service through the consolidation. 14 Table of Contents The success of our business is partially dependent on our ability to raise capital, and failure to raise the necessary capital may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our revolving credit facility with MidCap Financial, LLC, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the foreseeable future. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the results of our operations; •the reimbursement rates associated with our products and services; •our ability to secure contracts with additional commercial payors providing for the reimbursement of our services; •the costs associated with manufacturing and building our inventory of our current and future generation monitors; •the costs of hiring additional personnel and investing in infrastructure to support future growth; •the costs of undertaking future strategic initiatives, such as acquisitions or joint ventures; •the emergence of competing technologies and products and other adverse market developments; •the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against claims of infringement by others; and •actions taken by the FDA, CMS and other regulatory authorities affecting MCOT™ and competitive products. If we decide to raise additional capital in the future, such capital may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would likely result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. The Company's business depends on its ability to attract and retain talented employees. The Company's business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in its industry is extremely competitive. If the Company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Our patient services business is dependent upon physicians prescribing our services; and failure to obtain those prescriptions may adversely affect our revenue. The success of our patient services segment is dependent upon physicians prescribing our services. Our success in obtaining prescriptions will be directly influenced by a number of factors, including: •the ability of the physicians with whom we work to obtain sufficient reimbursement and be paid in a timely manner for the professional services they provide in connection with the use of our arrhythmia monitoring solutions; •continuing to establish ourselves as a comprehensive arrhythmia monitoring services provider; •our ability to educate physicians regarding the benefits of MCOT™ over alternative diagnostic monitoring solutions; and •the clinical efficacy of MCOT™. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to educate physicians regarding the benefits of MCOT™ and obtain sufficient prescriptions for our services, revenue from the provision of our arrhythmia monitoring solutions could potentially decrease. CMS recently reduced the national reimbursement rate for our mobile cardiac telemetry service and this reduction may decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The national reimbursement rate for our cardiac telemetry service is continuously subject to change. On December 4, 2013, the Company announced that CMS published a reduction to the reimbursement for remote cardiac monitoring services effective January 1, 2014. This reduction will impact all providers of remote cardiac monitoring services and will result in a 13.7% decrease to the national reimbursement rate for the MCOTTM service. If these rates had been in effect for 2013, we estimate that the Company's revenue would have been negatively impacted by approximately 3.8%. Effective January 1, 2014 for MCOTTM services, the national rate is $658.46 and the California rate is $904.41 after sequestration. These rates are in effect until March 31, 2014. Reimbursement to healthcare providers, including the Company, is subject to continuing change in policies by CMS. Reimbursement from governmental payors is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative rulings and other policy changes, all of which could materially decrease the range of services or the rate for which we are reimbursed. Reimbursement under the Medicare program for our services is subject to the physician fee schedule that is typically updated annually. The amounts paid under the physician fee schedule are based on geographically adjusted relative value units, or RVUs, for each procedure or service, adjusted by a budget neutrality adjustor, and multiplied by an annually determined conversion factor. Historically, the formula used to calculate the fee schedule conversion factor resulted in significant decreases in payment levels. However, in every year from 2004 through 2013, Congress has intervened multiple times to freeze or increase the conversion factor. Using the relative value formula and values currently in place, the Company's national rate for 2013 was approximately $736 per service. The Company's national rate was $694 for 2012 and $681 for 2011. Beginning in February 2012, the Company moved its monitoring for Medicare patients to San Francisco, CA. The reimbursement rate for Medicare patients serviced in the San Francisco, CA facility, adjusted for local geographic pricing, was $1,000 for 2013 and $943 per service for 2012. Effective April 1, 2013, the Company's Medicare rate was reduced by an additional 2% due to federal sequestration, resulting in the Company receiving $985 per service for the remainder of 2013. Reimbursement by Medicare is highly regulated and subject to change and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could decrease our revenue, subject us to penalties or adversely affect our results of operations. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which imposes extensive and detailed requirements on medical services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims, how we operate our monitoring facilities and how and where we provide our arrhythmia monitoring solutions. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare rules could result in discontinuing our reimbursement under the Medicare payment program, our being required to return funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare program. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the reimbursement rate that commercial payors and Medicare will pay for our services could adversely affect our revenue. We receive reimbursement for our services from commercial payors and from Medicare administrative contractors with jurisdiction in the state where the services are performed. In addition, our prescribing physicians receive reimbursement for professional interpretation of the information provided by our products and services from commercial payors or Medicare. Average commercial reimbursement rates have declined from 2009 to 2013. Over time, we expect that commercial payors may transition from commercial pricing to the CMS national rate, which is lower than those rates historically paid by commercial payors. Furthermore, when commercial payors combine their operations, the combined company may elect to reimburse for our products and services at the lowest rate paid by any of the participants in the consolidation. If one of the payors participating in the consolidation does not reimburse for one of our products or services, such as MCOT™, at all, the combined company may elect not to reimburse for such product or service. A decrease in the reimbursement rates would adversely affect our financial results. Audits or denials of our claims by government agencies and private payors could reduce our revenues and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our business operations, we submit claims on behalf of patients directly to, and receive payments from, Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including requirements for submitting reimbursement claims under appropriate codes and maintaining certain documentation to support our claims. Medicare contractors and Medicaid agencies periodically conduct pre- and post-payment reviews and other audits of claims and are under increasing pressure to more closely scrutinize healthcare claims and supporting documentation. We have been and are currently subject to pre-and post-payment reviews as well as audits of claims under CMS' Recovery Audit Program and may experience such reviews and audits of claims in the future. Such reviews and similar audits of our claims could result in material delays in payment, as well as material recoupments or denials, which would reduce our net sales and profitability, or result in our exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. We are also subject to similar review and audits from private payors, which may also result in material delays in payment and material recoupments and denials. We may experience difficulty in obtaining reimbursement for our services from commercial payors that consider our technology to be experimental and investigational, which would adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Many commercial payors refuse to enter into contracts to reimburse the fees associated with medical devices or services that such payors determine to be "experimental and investigational." Commercial payors typically label medical devices or services as "experimental and investigational" until such devices or services have demonstrated product superiority evidenced by a randomized clinical trial. We completed a clinical trial in March 2007 that showed that MCOT™ provided higher diagnostic yield than traditional loop event monitoring. Prior to our clinical trial, MCOT™ was labeled "experimental and investigational" by several commercial payors. Since the trial was published in March 2007, we have obtained contracts with many of these commercial payors that previously labeled MCOT™ as "experimental and investigational." We have not obtained contracts with certain remaining commercial payors, however, and these payors have informed us that they do not believe the data from this trial justifies the removal of the experimental designation. As a result, these commercial payors may refuse to reimburse the technical and professional fees associated with MCOT™. If commercial payors or Medicare decide not to reimburse our services or the related services provided by physicians, or the rates of such reimbursement change, or if we fail to properly administer claims, our revenue could fail to grow and could decrease. 17 Table of Contents We have a concentrated number of commercial payors and losing one of them would reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and operating results. A small number of commercial payors represent a significant percentage of our revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2013, our top 10 commercial payors by revenue accounted for approximately 72% of our patient services revenue. Our agreements with these commercial payors typically allow either party to the contract to terminate the contract by providing between 60 and 120 days prior written notice to the other party at any time following the end of the initial term of the contract. Our commercial payors may elect to terminate or not to renew their contracts with us for any reason and, in some instances can unilaterally change the reimbursement rates they pay. In the event any of our key commercial payors terminate their agreements with us, elect not to renew or enter into new agreements with us upon expiration of their current agreements, or do not renew or establish new agreements on terms as favorable as are currently contracted, our business, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected. We have a concentration of risk related to the accounts receivable from one customer and failure to fully collect outstanding balances from this customer, or a combination of other customers, may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we have balances owed to us from one customer, Medicare, representing approximately 18% of our total net accounts receivable. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on the collections history and aging of outstanding receivables, as well as for any specific instances we become aware of that may preclude us from reasonably assuring collection on outstanding balances. Determining the allowance for doubtful accounts is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates. A determination that requires a change in our estimates could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. If we do not have enough equipment or experience delays in manufacturing, we may be unable to fill prescriptions in a timely manner, physicians may elect not to prescribe MCOT™, and our revenue and growth prospects could be harmed. When a physician prescribes MCOT™ to a patient, our customer service department begins the patient hook-up process, which includes procuring a monitor, sensor and base from our distribution department and sending them to the patient. While our goal is to provide each patient a MCOT™ in a timely manner, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays due to the availability of devices, primarily when converting to a new generation of device or in connection with the increase in prescriptions following potential acquisitions of other companies. We may also experience shortages of monitors, sensors or bases due to manufacturing difficulties. Multiple suppliers provide the components used in our MCOT™ devices, but our Minnesota facility is registered and approved by the FDA as the manufacturer of record of MCOT™ devices. Our manufacturing operations could be disrupted by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster, a labor-related disruption, failure in supply or other logistical channels, electrical outages or other reasons. If there were a disruption to our facility in Minnesota, we would be unable to manufacture MCOT™ devices until we have restored and re-qualified our manufacturing capability or developed alternative manufacturing facilities. Our success in obtaining future prescriptions from physicians is dependent upon our ability to promptly deliver monitors, sensors and bases to our patients, and a failure in this regard would have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth prospects. 18 Table of Contents Our wireless and data agreement with Verizon terminates this year, and failure to renew could adversely affect our ability to manage our data, our results of operations, and revenue. Our agreement with Verizon, who is the sole provider of wireless cellular data connectivity solutions, data hosting and queuing services for our MCOT™ monitoring service, terminates in September 2014. If we are unable to renew this agreement we would be forced to seek alternative providers of data transmission and data hosting services, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Interruptions or delays in telecommunications systems could impair the delivery of MCOT™ services. The success of MCOT™ is dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing and communication capabilities. The MCOT™ monitors rely on a third party wireless carrier to transmit data over its data network during times that the monitor is removed from its base. All data sent by our monitors via this wireless data network or via landline is routed directly to Verizon data centers and subsequently routed to our monitoring centers. We are dependent upon this third party wireless carrier to provide data transmission and data hosting services to us through our agreement with Verizon. We have no control over the status of the agreement between Verizon and the wireless carrier. If we fail to maintain our relationship with Verizon, or if we lose wireless carrier services, we would be forced to seek alternative providers of data transmission and data hosting services, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As we expand our commercial activities, an increased burden will be placed upon our data processing systems and the equipment upon which they rely. Interruptions of our data networks, or the data networks of Verizon, for any extended length of time, loss of stored data or other computer problems could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our arrhythmia monitoring services could cause permanent harm to our reputation and could cause current or potential users of MCOT™ or prescribing physicians to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors. Such interruptions could result in liability, claims and litigation against us for damages or injuries resulting from the disruption in service. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, and acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions that we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in these services. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect against losses that may result from interruptions in service as a result of system failures. Moreover, the communications and information technology industries are subject to rapid and significant changes, and our ability to operate and compete is dependent on our ability to update and enhance the communication technologies used in our systems and services. New products and technological advances by our competitors may negatively affect our market share, commercial opportunities and results of operations. The market for arrhythmia monitoring solutions is evolving rapidly and becoming increasingly competitive. Our industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a small number of large providers and a large number of smaller regional service providers. These third parties compete with us in marketing to payors and prescribing physicians, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, acquiring technology and developing solutions complementary to our programs. In addition, as companies with substantially greater resources than ours enter our market, we will face increased competition. If our competitors are better able to develop and patent arrhythmia monitoring solutions than us, or develop more effective or less expensive arrhythmia monitoring solutions that render our solutions obsolete or 19 Table of Contents non-competitive, or deploy larger or more effective marketing and sales resources than ours, our business will be harmed and our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. We operate in an intensely competitive industry that experiences rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in patient requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. Our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, as well as creating new technologies, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. If our research and development efforts are unsuccessful, our future results of operations could be materially harmed. Our business depends on sophisticated information technology systems to operate and a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The size, complexity, and nature of information in our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. While we have invested in our systems and the protection of our data to reduce the risk of attack or invasion and we monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats, there can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent future interruptions or breakdowns that could have a significant effect on our business. Violation of federal and state laws regarding privacy and security of patient information may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations. The use and disclosure of certain health care information by health care providers and their business associates have come under increased public scrutiny. Federal standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, establish rules concerning how individually-identifiable health information may be used, disclosed and protected. Historically, state law had governed confidentiality issues, and HIPAA preserves these laws to the extent they are more protective of a patient's privacy or provide the patient with more access to his or her health information. Additionally, the more recent Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act and associated changes to HIPAA imposes additional requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. We must operate our business in a manner that complies with all applicable laws, both federal and state, and that does not jeopardize the ability of our customers to comply with all applicable laws. We believe that our operations are consistent with these legal standards. Nevertheless, these laws and regulations present risks for health care providers and their business associates that provide services to patients in multiple states. Because some of these laws and regulations are recent, and few have been interpreted by government regulators or courts, we may need to adjust our interpretations of these laws and regulations over time. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations, may require us to forego relationships with customers in certain states and may restrict the territory available to us to expand our business. In addition, even if our interpretations of HIPAA and other federal and state laws and regulations are correct, we could be held liable for unauthorized uses or disclosures of patient information as a result of inadequate systems and controls to protect this information or as a result of the theft of information by unauthorized computer programmers who penetrate our network security. Violation of these laws against us could have a material adverse effect 20 Table of Contents on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we experienced the theft of two unencrypted laptop computers and as a result were required to provide notices under the HIPAA Breach Notification Rule. Although we have been in compliance with our obligations stemming from these incidents, there has yet to be an outcome to the ongoing investigation into the thefts by the United States Department of Health and Human Services' Office for Civil rights. The Company is unable to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by the Office for Civil Rights or other governmental authorities as a result of this investigation or what impact, if any, the outcome of this matter might have on the Company's results of operations. Our operations and the operations of our physicians and patients are subject to regulation aimed at preventing health care fraud and abuse and if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, the Company could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the Federal Healthcare Programs' Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act. For some of our services, we directly bill physicians, who, in turn, bill payors. Although we believe such payments are proper and in compliance with laws and regulations, we may be subject to claims asserting that we have violated these laws and regulations. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. Furthermore, if we knowingly "cause" the filing of false claims for reimbursement with government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid we may be subject to substantial civil penalties, including treble damages. The federal False Claims Act also contains "whistleblower" or "qui tam" provisions that allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the government. In recent years, the number of suits brought in the medical industry by private individuals has increased dramatically. Various states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act, including "qui tam" provisions, and some of these laws apply to claims filed with commercial insurers. Even if we are not found to have violated any of these federal or state anti-fraud or false claims acts, the costs of defending these claims could adversely affect our results of operations. The operation of our call centers and monitoring facilities is subject to rules and regulations governing IDTFs and state licensure requirements; failure to comply with these rules could prevent us from receiving reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payors. We have call centers and monitoring facilities in Pennsylvania, Minnesota and California that analyze the data obtained from arrhythmia monitors and report the results to physicians. In order for us to receive reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payors, we must have a call center certified as an IDTF. Certification as an IDTF requires that we follow strict regulations governing how the center operates, such as requirements regarding the experience and certifications of the technicians who review data transmitted from our monitors. These rules and regulations vary from location to location and are subject to change. If they change, we may have to change the operating procedures at our monitoring facilities and call centers, which could increase our costs significantly. If we fail to obtain and maintain IDTF certification, our services may no longer be reimbursed by Medicare and some commercial payors, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 21 Table of Contents Changes in the health care industry or tort reform could reduce the number of arrhythmia monitoring solutions ordered by physicians, which could result in a decline in the demand for our solutions, pricing pressure and decreased revenue. Changes in the health care industry directed at controlling health care costs or perceived over-utilization of arrhythmia monitoring solutions could reduce the volume of solutions ordered by physicians. If more health care cost controls are broadly instituted throughout the health care industry, the volume of cardiac monitoring solutions could decrease, resulting in pricing pressure and declining demand for our services, which could harm our operating results. In addition, it has been suggested that some physicians order arrhythmia monitoring solutions, even when the services may have limited clinical utility, primarily to establish a record for defense in the event of a claim of medical malpractice against the physician. Legal changes increasing the difficulty of initiating medical malpractice cases, known as tort reform, could reduce the amount of our services prescribed as physicians respond to reduced risks of litigation, which could harm our operating results. Legislation and policy changes reforming the United States healthcare system may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. On March 23, 2010, both the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. Together, the two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the United States health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Care Reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next few years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care. In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the effect that newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business. Failure to appropriately track and report certain payments and physician hospitals may violate certain federal reporting laws and subject us to fines and penalties. Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act requires certain medical devices manufacturers that produce devices covered by the Medicare and state Medicaid programs to report annually to the government certain payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. If we fail to appropriately track and report such payments to the government, we could be subject to civil fines and penalties, which could adversely affect the results of our operations. If we or our suppliers fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approval of manufacturing facilities, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently assemble the monitors, sensors and bases for MCOT™, and manufacture wEvent, event and Holter monitors in our Eagan, MN facility. Monitors used for Pacemaker services are purchased from third parties. In order to maintain compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, our manufacturing facilities must be periodically re-evaluated and qualified under a quality system to ensure they meet production and quality standards. Suppliers of components and products used to manufacture MCOT™, wEvent, event and Holter devices, and the manufacturers of the monitors used in Pacemaker and INR services must also comply with FDA regulatory requirements, which often require significant resources and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. If we or our suppliers do not maintain regulatory approval for our manufacturing operations, our business could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers may prevent us from delivering our devices on a timely basis. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers of components for MCOT™, wEvent, event and Holter devices. If these suppliers became unable to provide components in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply. The process of qualifying suppliers is lengthy. Delays or interruptions in the supply of our requirements could limit or stop our ability to provide sufficient quantities of devices on a timely basis, meet demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to new medical device taxes that impose additional taxes on our services. Effective January 1, 2013, as a result of the passage of the Affordable Care Act, manufacturers of certain medical devices are subject to an excise tax on the sale of the devices. Several devices that are manufactured by our product segment are subject to these taxes. The tax is 2.3% of the sale price of the applicable medical device. The manufacturer is responsible for remitting these taxes to the Federal Government. If taxes are not collected from customers in an amount equal to the taxes owed, or the taxes are not remitted in a timely matter, we may be subject to penalties and fees that could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, if we are forced to raise our prices as a result of the tax, then customers may stop or purchase less of our products, hurting our revenue and results of operations. We could be subject to medical liability or product liability claims, which may not be covered by insurance and which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of services of the types we provide entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Any such claims against us may require us to incur significant defense costs, irrespective of whether such claims have merit. In addition, we provide information to health care providers and payors upon which determinations affecting medical care are made, and claims may be made against us resulting from adverse medical consequences to patients resulting from the information we provide. In addition, we may become subject to liability in the event that the devices we use fail to correctly record or transfer patient information or if we provide incorrect information to patients or health care providers using our services. We have also agreed to indemnify Verizon for any claims resulting from the provision of our services. If we incur one or more significant claims against us, if we are required to indemnify Verizon as a result of the provision of our services, or if we are required to undertake remedial actions in response to any such claims, such claims or actions would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. In addition, our current insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against any claims against us, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to numerous FDA regulations and decisions and it may be costly to comply with these regulations and decisions and to develop compliant products and processes. The monitors, sensors and bases that we manufacture and use as part of our MCOT™ product are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. Further, we maintain establishment registration with the FDA as a distributor of medical devices. FDA regulations govern manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution, importing, exporting, shipping and sale of these devices. Our MCOT™ devices, including our C3 and C5 monitors, and our arrhythmia detection 23 Table of Contents algorithms have "510(k) clearance" status from the FDA. Modifications to our MCOT™ devices or our algorithms that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that could constitute a significant change in intended use, would require a new clearance from the FDA. If in the future we make changes to our MCOT™ devices or our algorithms, the FDA could determine that such modifications require new FDA clearance, and we may not be able to obtain such FDA clearances timely, or at all. We are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including quality regulations applicable to the manufacture of our MCOT™, event and Holter devices and various reporting regulations, as well as regulations that govern the promotion and advertising of medical devices. The FDA could find that we have failed to comply with one of these requirements, which could result in a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a warning letter to one or more severe sanctions. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of MCOT™ devices; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusal to grant 510(k) clearance of new components or algorithms; withdrawing 510(k) clearance already granted to one or more of our existing components or algorithms; and criminal prosecution. Any of these enforcement actions could be costly and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries ("DRC"). Due to the materials used in certain of the products manufactured by our subsidiary, Braemar Manufacturing, LLC, we must comply with annual disclosure and reporting rules adopted by the SEC by assessing whether the subject minerals contained in Braemar's products originated in the DRC. Our supply chain is complex since we do not source our minerals directly from the original mine or smelter. Consequently, we incur costs in complying with these disclosure requirements, including for due diligence to determine the source of the subject minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The rules may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products throughout the supply chain beyond our control, whether or not the subject minerals are "conflict free." Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all subject minerals used in our products through our diligence process. If our clients discontinue using our services or cancel projects, revenue may be adversely affected and we may not receive future business from these clients. Clients may cease using our services or may prematurely cancel projects. The cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple contracts could have an adverse material effect on our revenue and profitability. The loss of clients or individual contracts could have an adverse effect if we are unable to attract new clients or unable to replace projects. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts for various reasons including: •unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; •a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary or needed; •insufficient patient enrollment or poor project performance; and •production problems resulting in shortages of the drugs. 24 Table of Contents We are reliant on the outsourcing of research and development by pharmaceutical, clinical research and biotechnology companies. We are reliant on the ability and willingness of pharmaceutical, clinical research and biotechnology companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the types of research services that we provide. As such, we are impacted and subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we had 25,812,754 outstanding shares of vested common stock. In addition, we have outstanding 3,993,590 options and restricted stock units ("RSUs") to purchase shares of our common stock that will become exercisable over the next four years. If exercised, these options and RSUs would result in additional shares becoming available for sale. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that our stockholders might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: •establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; •authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our Company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions such stockholders desire. We may not be able to realize our net operating loss carryforwards. The Company's deferred tax assets include net operating loss carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income in future periods and reduce income taxes payable in those future periods. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income 25 Table of Contents during the periods in which those temporary differences are deductible. The timing and manner in which the Company can utilize its net operating loss carryforward and future income tax deductions in any year may be limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code regarding the change in ownership of corporations. Such limitation may have an impact on the ultimate realization of the Company's carryforwards and future tax deductions. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 382") imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize net operating losses if it experiences an "ownership change." In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by the built-in gains in assets held by the Company at the time of the change that are recognized in the five-year period after the change. Currently, the Company's loss carryforwards are limited under Section 382. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 