D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC”, including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Industry Data” on page 4. 7 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be successful in developing commercial products. Our success depends in part on our ability to identify genes that will improve selected crop traits. These genes are licensed to our collaborators to develop and commercialize seeds that contain the genes. It may take at least six years, if at all, before the first seeds complete the development process and become commercially available. Certain of our agreements entitle us to annual research and development payments and milestone payments in the event that specified milestones are met. While we currently do not earn royalties from the sale of seeds containing our seed traits, our long-term growth strategy is based in part on the expectation that such royalties will comprise a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Pursuant to our collaboration agreements, we are usually entitled to receive royalties on any product that integrates a trait over which we hold a patent for either an agreed upon duration of time or until our patent on the trait expires. If seeds that contain our traits are never commercialized, we will not receive revenues from royalties on the products and may not earn a profit on the traits we develop, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our long-term growth strategy. Seeds containing the traits that we develop may never become commercialized for any of the following reasons: § our partners may decide to discontinue, pause, or reduce the scope of, the development efforts for any of the products on which we collaborate. § we may fail to satisfy relevant milestones under the agreements with our collaborators; § our traits may not be successfully validated in the target plants or may not have the desired effect sought by our collaborators on the relevant crop; § our collaborators may be unable to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for the seeds containing our traits; § our competitors may launch competing or more effective seed traits or seeds; § our collaborators may be unable to fully develop and commercialize products containing our seed traits or may decide, for whatever reason, not to commercialize such products; and § a market may not exist for seeds containing our traits or such seeds may not be commercially successful; and § we may be unable to patent our traits in the necessary jurisdictions. Our product development cycle is lengthy and uncertain, and we may never earn royalties on the sale of products containing our seed traits. Research and development in the seed and ag-chemical and larger agriculture industries is expensive and prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. We may spend many years and dedicate significant financial and other resources developing products that will never be commercialized. The process of discovering, developing and commercializing a seed trait (through either genetic modification or advanced breeding) or an ag-chemical product involves several phases, and we estimate that it will take seven to thirteen years from discovery to commercialization of a product containing our seed trait and at least twelve years in the case of an ag-chemical product. The timelines for development of products by our partners may extend beyond our expectations for many reasons, such as: § our partners may revise the process of product development or make other decisions regarding their product development pipelines that may extend the period of product development. § our partners may prioritize other development activities ahead of development activities with respect to the products on which we collaborate; § our technology (traits or ag-chemical products) may not be successfully validated in the target plants or may not have the desired effect sought by our collaborators on the relevant crop; and § our collaborators may be unable to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for the seeds containing our technologies (traits or ag-chem products) within expected timelines. 8 We currently have 29 seed traits under development, of which 24 are developed with our collaborators, most of which are in Discovery and Phase I, with two products in Phase II. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview—Product Development Cycle—Seed Trait Product Development Cycle” for a description of these phases. It may take at least six more years, if at all, before the first products containing our seed traits complete the development process and become commercially available, however we have little to no certainty as to which, if any, of these products will eventually reach commercialization. Because of the long product development cycle and the complexities and uncertainties associated with chemical and biotechnological research, there is significant uncertainty as to whether we will ever generate significant royalties from the products that we are developing. We derive substantially all of our current revenues from our strategic collaborations, most significantly with Monsanto and Bayer, and the termination or non-renewal of these collaborations would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements and related arrangements, most significantly with Monsanto Company, or Monsanto, and we have collaboration agreements with most of the world’s leading seed and ag-chemical companies, including subsidiaries or affiliates of Monsanto, Bayer AG, or Bayer, under which we currently generate revenues through research and development payments, up-front payments, milestone payments and revenues from shares purchased at a premium. Monsanto and Bayer are expected to continue to account for a substantial amount of our revenues for the next few years. In particular, revenues from Monsanto accounted for 59.8%, 62.4% and 70.1% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Revenues from Bayer accounted for 27.1%, 32.4%, and 24.1% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our current agreement with Monsanto was signed in 2008 and was extended in November 2011 and again in October 2013. With respect to our abiotic stress activities under the extended agreement, the collaboration period (i.e., the period of active computational discovery efforts, separate from validation efforts that may follow) is scheduled to expire in August 2016, and is followed by more than a year of validation activities; for biotic stress activities, the collaboration period, including validation efforts, is scheduled to expire in August 2019. We entered into two separate multi-year collaboration agreements with Bayer, the first covering rice in April 2009, the collaboration period under which expired in April 2012, and the second covering wheat in December 2010, the collaboration period under which (i.e., the period for performance of research and development activities prescribed under the agreement) is scheduled to expire in the first quarter of 2017. See “Item 4.B.Business Overview—Key Collaborations.” We are substantially dependent on Monsanto and, to a lesser extent, on Bayer and our other collaborators to pay us annual research and development fees and milestone fees upon the occurrence of certain milestone events. The termination or non-renewal of our agreements with Monsanto and Bayer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There are only a few companies in our seed and ag-chemical market, and we rely on a limited number of collaborators to develop and commercialize products containing our technologies (seed traits and ag-chemicals). The seed and ag-chemical market is highly consolidated and dominated by a relatively small number of large companies. For example, according to Phillips McDougall’s 2012 Industry Presentation on the Global Seed Market, in 2012, only five agricultural and seed companies, Monsanto, E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, or DuPont, Syngenta AG, or Syngenta, Bayer and Limagrain Cereal Seeds, LLC, or Limagrain controlled more than 60% of market value in the global seed market. We are currently undertaking collaborations with these companies to develop improved seeds. Due to the small number of companies in our market, there are limited opportunities for us to grow our business with new collaborators. In addition, if we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with any of our current collaborators, we could not only lose our opportunity to work with that collaborator, but we could also suffer a reputational risk that could impact our relationships with other collaborators in what is a relatively small industry community. We are currently working either with collaborators or on independent projects to research and develop 29 different seed traits and ag-chemical products. While we seek to expand our portfolio of traits in the future, the research and development required to discover and develop new traits is costly, time-intensive and requires significant infrastructure resources. Therefore, in order to discover and develop new traits, we must either enter into new collaborations with seed and ag-chemical companies or develop the traits ourselves, independent of any collaborators. If we are unable to enter into new collaborations, or if we do not have the resources to develop the capabilities necessary to discover and develop new seed traits independently, we may not be able to expand our portfolio of traits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. 9 A decrease in research expenditures in the seed and ag-chemical markets may jeopardize the continuation of our collaborations with seed and ag-chemical companies and adversely impact our ability to extend existing collaborations or enter into new ones. The budget for, and size of, research and development expenditures of our existing and potential collaborators, may be reduced for several reasons, such as, for example, the decrease in commodity prices that occurred in 2014 (one example of such decrease is corn prices which decreased from around 7 USD/bushel in mid-2013 to less than 4 USD/bushel in late 2014. This development may, in turn, adversely impact the size of the research payments that we may receive from these collaborators, as well as our ability to extend existing collaborations or enter into new ones. We or our collaborators may fail to perform obligations under the collaboration agreements. We are obligated under our collaboration agreements to perform research activities over a particular period of time. If we fail to perform our obligations under these agreements, in some cases our collaborators may terminate our agreements with them and in other cases our collaborators’ obligations may be reduced and, as a result, our anticipated revenues may decrease. In addition, any of our collaborators may fail to perform their obligations, which may hinder development and commercialization of products containing the traits we develop and materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. Furthermore, the various payments we receive from our collaborators are our primary source of revenues. If our collaborators do not make these payments, either due to financial hardship, disagreement under the relevant collaboration agreement or for any other reason, our results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. If disagreements with a collaborator arise, any dispute with such collaborator may negatively affect our relationship with one or more of our other collaborators and may hinder our ability to enter into future collaboration agreements, each of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our collaborators have significant resources and development capabilities and may develop their own products that compete with or negatively impact the advancement or sale of products utilizing the traits we develop and license to them. While we protect the traits we develop and license to our collaborators through both legal and contractual provisions, any of our collaborators could develop or pursue competing products and traits that may ultimately prove more commercially viable than the traits we develop. Our collaborators are significantly larger than us and may have substantially greater resources and development capabilities. The development or launch of a competing product by a collaborator may adversely affect the advancement and commercialization of any competing traits we develop and any associated research and development payments, milestone and royalty payments. We are working to develop novel ag-chemical products, and our efforts to enter this market may be unsuccessful. In addition to our seed trait business, we are currently developing solutions for crop protection and enhancement through chemistry, or ag-chemistry. Although our computational technologies PoinTar and PointHit are designed to develop such ag-chemical products, and although we continue to develop additional technologies, we still need to compile all the data that our technologies need to analyze in order to discover and develop new products. We are developing these products through a novel approach, focused on biologically significant proteins called “targets,” which is similar to certain approaches pharmaceutical companies undertake to develop new drugs. We currently do not have any collaborators for our ag-chemical products, and therefore are currently funding our data-collection and research and development efforts relating to our ag-chemical products ourselves. Our efforts to develop novel ag-chemical products may fail for a variety of reasons, including: § Our failure to compile a sufficient amount of data and to develop the technological tools necessary to discover and develop any ag-chemical products; § Our failure to enter into collaborations similar to those in our seed trait activity; § The failure of our relatively novel target-based approach to lead to an effective product or failure to identify chemical compounds that will display required level of performance; and § Our failure to obtain sufficient funding to fully execute our ag-chemical business plan. 10 Furthermore, even if we are able to discover and develop an effective product, it may not be successful if we are unable to find collaborators to undertake the advanced stages of product development and to market and commercialize the product. If our efforts to develop ag-chemical products are unsuccessful, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Evofuel, our wholly owned subsidiary that develops seeds for biodiesel and other uses, may not be successful for a number of reasons. Our wholly owned subsidiary Evofuel is currently developing improved, high-yield castor bean seeds to be used as a source of non-edible feedstock for the biodiesel market and other industries. The renewable energy market in general and the biodiesel market more specifically are not well established and are evolving. Furthermore, the biodiesel market faces continuing competition from traditional petroleum-based fuels, and demand for biodiesel fluctuates with changing oil and gas prices. Specifically in late 2014, crude oil prices are as low as were in 2008 – nearly $50 per brl. in order for our castor bean seeds to be an attractive feedstock for biodiesel, we will need to demonstrate on a commercial scale that castor beans can reliably be used as a cost-efficient feedstock for biodiesel production. We will also need to show that the production cost and sales price of castor bean-based biodiesel are competitive with those of traditional oil and gas. The success of these operations will largely depend on our ability to address several unique challenges, including: § the yields of our castor seed varieties on commercial scale under rain-fed conditions, securing economic viability as biodiesel feedstock; § the ability to harvest castor bean in an efficient mechanized manner; § the cost of producing castor bean grains, allowing grower profitability; § Adoption on large scale by growers of castor, including the successful management of diseases, pets and castor volunteers; § the risk that farmers may decide not to grow “second season” replacement crops such as the castor bean; § the health and environmental risks posed by the castor bean seed, which contains a naturally occurring poison called ricin; § any regulatory concerns related to sales of castor beans, particularly related to the import of such beans and the potential effects of ricin; and § the sustainability of our production and the biodiesel end-product. In addition, we have no prior experience operating as a seed company. We will therefore be operating in a new industry, with little knowledge of the dynamics involved in producing and selling seeds. Prior to addressing the biodiesel market, Evofuel expects to address other oil industries and take advantage of the premium oil prices paid by the industrial market. Furthermore, we are working to design improved castor bean seeds and address each of these issues so that we are able to grow a sufficient and sustainable amount of castor bean plants at a low cost. We have entered into strategic collaborations with SLC Agricola S.A., or SLC Agricola and Insolo Agroindustrial S/A, or Insolo, two agri-busniesses operating in farms in northeast Brazil; T6 Industrial S.A., or T6, a leading Argentinian biodiesel producer; and CNH, a leader in development and commercialization of harvesting equipment, which we expect will eventually facilitate commercialization of the castor beans we are currently developing. We are unable to foresee when significant sales will commence, and we do not expect to start selling seeds before 2016. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our collaborations with SLC Agricola, Insolo, T6 or CNH will ultimately result in a commercialized castor bean seed. If we are unable to adequately address any of these issues, we may not find a market for our castor bean seeds and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Even if we are entitled to royalties from our collaborators, we may not actually receive these royalties, or we may experience difficulties in collecting the royalties that we believe we are entitled to. After our collaborators launch commercial products containing our licensed genes, we will need to rely on the good faith of our collaborators to report to us the sales they earn from these products and to accurately calculate the royalties we are entitled to, a process that will involve complicated and difficult calculations. Although we seek to address these concerns in our collaboration agreements, such provisions may not be effective. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve our long-term goal of generating revenues from royalties, and in the coming years our revenues will be entirely dependent on fees we earn for our research and development services and milestone payments from our collaborators. We depend on our key personnel and, if we are not able to attract and retain qualified scientific and business personnel, we may not be able to grow our business or develop and commercialize our products. The vast majority of our workforce is involved in research and development. Our business is therefore dependent on our ability to recruit and maintain a highly skilled and educated workforce with expertise in a range of disciplines, including biology, chemistry, plant genetics, agronomics, entomology, mathematics, computer science and other subjects relevant to our operations. For example, approximately 28% of our staff holds a PhD. The number of qualified and highly educated personnel in Israel, where all of our operations are located, is limited and competition for the services of such persons is intense. Although we have employment agreements with all of our employees, most of these agreements may be terminated upon short notice. The failure to hire and retain skilled and highly educated personnel could limit our growth and hinder our research and development efforts. We have recently begun to develop certain technologies (seed traits and ag-chemicals) independent of our collaborators, and we may need to finance the cost of the initial development phase of such technologies ourselves. Currently, our business plan is based primarily on the development of traits in collaboration with our collaborators through all six phases of the discovery-development-commercialization process. We have, however, recently begun to develop certain traits independent of our collaborators and are developing such traits on our own during the discovery phase, and may also undertake such independent discovery efforts during the Phase I or “proof of concept” phase, with a goal of making such traits available to collaborators during later phases, once we have identified what we believe to be promising traits. While we believe that this will allow us to negotiate more favorable license terms with respect to such traits, the up-front cost to us of developing traits without a collaborator (and therefore without external funding for the research and development expenditures we incur) in these early phases involves higher risks, since we need to fund the research and development of such traits ourselves. If we are unsuccessful in discovering promising traits after having invested significant funds, or if we are unable to find collaborators who are interested in such traits and willing to fund subsequent phases of development and commercialization, such failures could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to various government regulations and, if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our business is generally subject to two types of regulations: regulations that apply to how we operate and regulations that apply to products containing our seed traits. We apply for and maintain the regulatory approvals necessary for our operations, particularly those covering our field trials, while our collaborators apply for and maintain regulatory approvals necessary for the commercialization of products containing our seed traits. More recently, regulators have implemented delays in approving genetically engineered crops due to environmental concerns and negative publicity. Field trials for our seed traits that are performed in Israel are subject to Israeli regulations, and field trials that are being executed in the U.S. by local subcontractors are regulated by local regulation. We believe that our current activities are compliant with all currently applicable Israeli regulations, however we may become subject to new or revised regulations or approvals in the future. Furthermore, any violation of these regulations could expose us to criminal penalties. 12 The large-scale field trials that our collaborators conduct during advanced stages of product development are subject to regulations similar to those we are subject to. Pursuant to our collaboration agreements, our collaborators also apply for the requisite regulatory approvals prior to commercialization of products containing our seed traits. In most of our key target markets, including the United States and the European Union, regulatory approvals must be received prior to the importation of transgenic products. These regulatory regimes may be particularly onerous; for example, the U.S. federal government’s regulation of biotechnology is divided among the United States Environmental Protection Agency, which regulates activity related to the invention of plant pesticides and herbicides, the United States Department of Agriculture, which regulates the import, field testing and interstate movement of specific technologies that may be used in the creation of transgenic plants, and the United States Food and Drug Administration, which regulates foods derived from new plant varieties. None of our seed traits is currently being tested in large-scale field trial or is in the regulatory approval development stage. Once products containing our seed traits reach these stages, however, if our collaborators are unable to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or there is a delay in obtaining such approvals as a result of negative market perception or heightened regulatory standards, such products will not be commercialized, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations. Disruption to our IT system could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our computational technologies rely on our IT system to collect and analyze the genomic data we discover. We store significant amounts of data, and as of December 31, 2014, we had compiled over 500 terabytes of data. Although we are developing back-up storage for our stored data, there can be no assurance that our back-up storage arrangements will be effective if it becomes necessary to rely on them. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that our current IT system is fully protected against third-party intrusions, viruses, hacker attacks, information or data theft or other similar threats. As we continue to develop our computational technologies and expand our genomic datasets, we may need to update our IT system and storage capabilities. However, if our existing or future IT system does not function properly, or if the IT system proves incompatible with our new technologies, we could experience interruptions in data transmissions and slow response times, preventing us from completing routine research and business activities. Furthermore, disruption or failure of our IT system due to technical reasons, natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, storms, fires, floods, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars could significantly impair our ability to deliver data related to our projects to our collaborators on schedule and materially and adversely affect the outcome of our collaborations, our relationships with our collaborators, our business and our results of operations. Development of our seed traits, particularly during our field trials, may be adversely affected by circumstances caused by us and those beyond our control. The seed and ag-chemical industry is subject to various factors that make its operations relatively unpredictable from period to period. Our field tests may be adversely affected by circumstances both caused by us and those beyond our control. Factors caused by us include any failure by us or our collaborators to follow proper agronomic practice or suggested protocols for growing the model validation plants and crops for our field trials, and failure to identify and address diseases, insects and pests, such as birds that may eat the seeds we are evaluating. Factors beyond our control include weather and climatic variations, such as droughts or heat stress, or other factors we are unable to identify. For example, if there was prolonged or permanent disruption to the electricity, climate control or water supply operating systems in our greenhouses or laboratories, the plants on which we are testing our traits and the samples we store in freezers, both of which are essential to our research and development activities, would be severely damaged or destroyed, adversely affecting our research and development activities and thereby our business and results of operations. We have also experienced crop failures in the past for then-unknown reasons, causing delays in our achievement of milestones and delivery of results, and necessitating that we re-start the field trials. Any field test failure we may experience is not covered by our insurance policy, and therefore could result in increased cost of the field trials and development of our seed traits, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. 13 Consumer and government resistance to genetically modified organisms may negatively affect our public image and reduce sales of plants containing our traits. We are active in the field of biotech research and development in seeds and crop protection, including genetically modified, or “GM” seeds. Foods made from such seeds are not accepted by many consumers and in certain countries production of certain GM crops is effectively prohibited, including throughout the European Union, due to concerns over such products’ effects on food safety and the environment. The high public profile of biotechnology in food production and lack of consumer acceptance of products to which we have devoted substantial resources could negatively affect our public image and results of operations. The prohibition on the production of certain GM crops in select countries and the current resistance from consumer groups, particularly in Europe, to GM crops not only limits our access to such markets but also has the potential to spread to and influence the acceptance of products developed through biotechnology in other regions of the world and may also influence regulators in other countries to limit or ban production of GM crops, which could limit the commercial opportunities to exploit biotechnology. GM crops are grown principally in the United States, Brazil and Argentina where there are fewer restrictions on the production of GM crops. If these or other countries where GM crops are grown enact laws or regulations that ban the production of such crops or make regulations more stringent, we could experience a longer product development cycle for our products and may even have to abandon projects related to certain crops or geographies, both of which would negatively affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, any changes in such laws and regulations or consumer acceptance of GM crops could negatively impact our collaborators, who in turn might terminate or reduce the scope of their collaborations with us or seek to alter the financial terms of our agreements with them. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of losses, and incurred operating losses of $15.3 million, $8.7 million and $3.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Although we are currently developing 29 distinct seed traits and ag-chemical products, there can be no assurance that these traits will result in commercially successful products. We expect to continue to incur losses in future periods, until we begin earning royalties on the products we are currently developing and any new seed traits we develop in the future, which may not occur for at least six more years, if at all. Because we will incur significant costs and expenses for these efforts before we obtain any incremental revenues from them, our losses in future periods could be significant. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we anticipate or that they do not result in profitability in the time period we anticipate, which would further increase our losses. If we are unable to adequately control the costs associated with operating our business, including our costs of development and sales, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects will suffer. The licenses we grant to our collaborators to use the genes we discover for specified traits in certain crops are exclusive. This limits our opportunities to license the genes that target the same traits in the same crop to more than one collaborator. The licenses we grant our collaborators to use the genes we discover and patent in certain crops are exclusive. That means that once genes are licensed to a collaborator in a specified crop or crops, we are generally prohibited from licensing those genes to any third party. For example, in the Bayer Wheat Agreement, as defined herein, we are broadly prohibited from collaborating on both GM trait discovery and advanced breeding for wheat, irrespective of the trait, with any party other than Bayer. The limitations imposed by these exclusive licenses could prevent us from expanding our business and increasing our exposure to new licensees, both of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Competition in seed traits and seeds is intense and requires continuous technological development. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. We currently face significant competition in the markets in which we operate. The markets for seed traits and ag-chemicals are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many companies engage in research and development of seed traits and ag-chemicals, and speed in getting a new product to market can be a significant competitive advantage. As an example, over the past decade some of our competitors have enhanced research and development budgets allocated for seeds that are more significant than our budget. In most segments of the seed and ag-chemical market, the number of products available to the consumer is steadily increasing as new products are introduced. At the same time, an increasing number of products are coming off patent and are thus available to generic manufacturers for production. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins and the inability to achieve market acceptance for products containing our traits. In addition, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources than us and some of our collaborators have more experience in research and development, regulatory matters, manufacturing and marketing. We anticipate increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and new technologies become available. Our technology may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors, which will prevent or limit our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization of our technology. 14 We may be required to pay royalties to employees who develop inventions that have been or will be commercialized by us, even if the rights to such inventions have been assigned to us and the employees have waived their rights to royalties or other additional compensation. Under the Israeli Patents Law, 5727-1967, if there is no agreement that prescribes whether, to what extent and on what conditions an employee is entitled to remuneration from commercialization of an invention developed by or with the contribution of such employee, then such matter is decided by a government-appointed compensation and royalties committee, or the Committee, established under the Patents Law. Recent decisions by the Committee have created uncertainty in this area, as it held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration or the criteria or circumstances under which an employee’s assignment of all rights and/or waiver of his or her right to remuneration will be disregarded. A significant portion of our intellectual property (including our patents) has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. All of our employees execute invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment, in which they assign their rights to potential inventions and acknowledge that they will not be entitled to additional compensation or royalties from commercialization of inventions. However, given the foregoing uncertainty with respect to the enforceability of a waiver of the right to future royalties, we may be required to pay royalties to our employees who have invented intellectual property that we have commercialized, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection for our proprietary computational technologies, our traits and their uses, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, the value of our technology could be materially adversely affected and our business would be harmed. We treat our proprietary computational technologies, including unpatented know-how and other proprietary information, as trade secrets. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with any third parties who have access to them, such as our consultants, independent contractors, advisors, corporate collaborators and outside scientific collaborators. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with employees and certain consultants. Any party with whom we have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, if any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent such third party, or those to whom they communicate such technology or information, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, or if we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced and our business and competitive position could be harmed. 15 Changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject, or to which we may become subject in the future, may materially increase our costs of operation, decrease our operating revenues and disrupt our business. Laws and regulatory standards and procedures that impact our business are continuously changing. Responding to these changes and meeting existing and new requirements may be costly and burdensome. Changes in laws and regulations may occur that could: § impair or eliminate our ability to research and develop our products, including validating our products through field trials; § increase our compliance and other costs of doing business through increases in the cost to patent or otherwise protect our intellectual property or increases in the cost to our collaborators to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize and market the products we develop with them; § require significant product redesign or systems redevelopment; § render our products less profitable, obsolete or less attractive compared to competing products; § affect our collaborators’ willingness to do business with us; § reduce the amount of revenues we receive from our collaborators through milestone payments or royalties; and § discourage our collaborators from offering, and consumers from purchasing, products that incorporate our traits. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislators and regulators have increased their focus on plant biotechnology in recent years, with particular attention paid to GM crops. Because our current products are primarily in the initial discovery and proof of concept development phase, the only GM-related regulations that currently affect our business are related to our validation trials in Israel. We believe that we are currently in compliance with Israeli regulations related to growing GM crops in Israel; however, if these regulations change, our validation trials may become costly and burdensome and could require us to relocate our trials outside of Israel or even change our business model to have our collaborators perform validation trials. While none of our products are currently available for sale, our future growth relies on the ability of our collaborators to commercialize and market our products, and any restrictions on such activities could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Any changes in regulations in countries where GM crops are grown or exported into could result in our collaborators being unable or unwilling to develop, commercialize or sell products that incorporate our traits. In addition, we rely on patents and other forms of intellectual property protection. Legislation and jurisprudence on patent protection in the key target markets where we seek patent protection, such as the United States and the European Union, is evolving and changes in laws could affect our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our products. Any changes to these existing laws and regulations may materially increase our costs of operation, decrease our operating revenues and disrupt our business. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulation” and “Item 4.B. Business Overview— Regulation of Products Containing Our Traits.” Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our product candidates. As is the case with other biotech companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing biotech patents involves technological and legal complexity, and is costly, time consuming, and inherently uncertain. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that may weaken or undermine our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents we might obtain in the future. 16 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting, maintaining and defending patents on product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States are less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we are unable to prevent third parties from using our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the jurisdictions in which we do not have patent protection. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and we may be unable to prevent such competitors from importing those infringing products into territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our product candidates and our patents and other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing in those jurisdictions. Moreover, farmers or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges against our intellectual property rights or may infringe upon our intellectual property rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, the practice by some farmers of saving seeds from non-hybrid crops (such as soybeans, canola and cotton) containing our biotechnological traits has prevented and may continue to prevent us from realizing the full value of our intellectual property in countries outside of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, including China, where we have filed patent applications. The legal systems of certain countries, including China, have not historically favored the enforcement of patents or other intellectual property rights, which could hinder us from preventing the infringement of our patents or other intellectual property rights and result in substantial risks to us. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert patent infringement or other claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license from third parties. If we or one of our collaborators are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of a third party, such litigation could be costly and time consuming and could prevent us or our collaborators from developing or commercializing our products. Our ability to generate significant revenues from our products depends on our and our collaborators’ ability to develop, market and sell our products and utilize our proprietary technology without infringing the intellectual property and other rights of any third parties. In the United States and abroad there are numerous third party patents and patent applications that may be applied toward our proprietary technology, business processes or developed traits, some of which may be construed as containing claims that cover the subject matter of our products or intellectual property. Because of the rapid pace of technological change, the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, and the fact that patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications that are unknown to us that may later result in issued patents upon which our product candidates or proprietary technologies infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware. These patents could reduce the value of the traits we develop or the genetically modified plants containing our traits or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotech industry generally. If any third party patent or patent application covers our intellectual property or proprietary rights and we are not able to obtain a license to it, we and our collaborators may be prevented from commercializing products containing our traits. 17 As the agricultural biotech industry continues to develop, we may become party to, or threatened with, litigation or other adverse proceedings regarding intellectual property or proprietary rights in our technology, processes or developed traits. Third parties may assert claims based on existing or future intellectual property rights and the outcome of any proceedings is subject to uncertainties that cannot be adequately quantified in advance. Any litigation proceedings could be costly and time consuming and negative outcomes could result in liability for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. There is also no guarantee that we would be able to obtain a license under such infringed intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A finding of infringement could prevent us or our collaborators from developing, marketing or selling a product or force us to cease some or all of our business operations. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel may be diverted as a result of these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could similarly have a negative impact on our business. We and our collaborators may disagree over our right to receive payments under our collaboration agreements, potentially resulting in costly litigation and loss of reputation. Our ability to generate royalty payments from our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to clearly delineate our intellectual property rights under those agreements. We often license patented genes or other intellectual property to our collaborators, who use or will use such intellectual property to develop and commercialize seeds with improved traits. However, a collaborator may use our intellectual property without our permission, dispute our ownership of certain intellectual property rights or argue that our intellectual property does not cover their marketed product. If a dispute arises, it may result in costly litigation, and our collaborator may refuse to pay us royalty payments while the dispute is ongoing. Furthermore, regardless of any resort to legal action, a dispute with a collaborator over intellectual property rights may damage our relationship with that collaborator, and may also harm our reputation in the industry. We have not yet registered our trademarks. Failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business. We have not yet filed applications to register our trademarks and those applications may be rejected or not be allowed for registration, and registered trademarks may not be successfully obtained, maintained or enforced. We are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, but we may not be able to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. If we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter more difficulty in enforcing them against third parties than we otherwise would, which could adversely affect our business. We may be required to pay substantial damages as a result of product liability claims for which insurance coverage is not available. Once products integrating our seed traits reach commercialization, product liability claims will be a commercial risk for our business, particularly as we are involved in the supply of biotechnological products, some of which can be harmful to humans and the environment. Courts have levied substantial damages in the United States and elsewhere against a number of companies in the agriculture industry in past years based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Product liability claims against us or our collaborators selling products that contain our seed traits or allegations of product liability relating to seeds containing traits developed by us could damage our reputation, harm our relationships with our collaborators and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We do not have product liability insurance coverage. Furthermore, while our collaboration agreements typically require that our collaborators indemnify us for the cost of product liability claims brought against us, such indemnification provisions may not always be enforced, and we may receive no indemnification if our own misconduct led to the claims. 18 Our employment agreements with our employees and other agreements with our collaborators and third parties may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. A substantial portion of our technologies and intellectual property is protected by trade secret laws. We rely on a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws as well as our employment agreements with our employees and other agreements with our collaborators and third parties to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. These measures may not prevent disclosure, infringement or misappropriation of our confidential information. Our confidentiality, nondisclosure and assignment agreements or covenants may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such a breach that would effectively prevent the further dissemination of our confidential information. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our collaborators and could lose future trade secret protection if any unauthorized disclosure of such information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets where we operate may afford little or no protection of our trade secrets. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, sales and competitive position. We may not be able to fully enforce covenants not to compete with our key employees, and therefore we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of such employees. Our employment agreements with key employees, which include executive officers, contain non-compete provisions. These provisions prohibit our key employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for one year. Under applicable U.S. and Israeli laws, we may be unable to enforce these provisions. If we cannot enforce the non-compete provisions with our key employees, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of such employees. Even if these provisions are enforceable, they may not adequately protect our interests. The defection of one or more of our employees to a competitor could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to capitalize on our proprietary information. The prospective establishment of our new R&D facility in the U.S. signifies our entry into international operations, which will expose us to additional market and operational risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our business and operating results. As we have announced previously, we plan to establish a research and development facility in the Bio-Research and Development Growth (BRDG) Park on the campus of the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center in St. Louis, Missouri, as part of our entry into the field of advanced solutions for insect control. Our physical presence in, and the accompanying expansion of our operations into, the United States will expose us more significantly to some of the operational risks that accompany doing business internationally, including: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • hiring and retention of employees and/or consultants under foreign employment laws with which we are not familiar; • laws and business practices that sometimes favor local competition; • compliance with complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; • tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to develop (and, when applicable in the future, sell) our solutions in certain foreign markets; and • being subject to the laws, regulations and the court systems of multiple jurisdictions. Our failure to manage the market and operational risks associated with international operations effectively could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results. 19 Our operations are subject to various health and environmental risks associated with our use, handling and disposal of potentially toxic materials. As part of our seed trait operations, we assist in the development of GM crops by inserting new genes into the genomes of certain plants. Though we introduce these genes in order to improve plant traits, we cannot always predict the effect that these genes may have on the plant. In some cases, the genes may render the plant poisonous or toxic, or they may cause the plant to develop other dangerous characteristics that could harm the plant’s surrounding environment. Furthermore, while we comply with relevant environmental laws and regulations, there is a risk that, when testing genetically modified plants, the seeds of these plants may escape the greenhouse or field in which they are being tested and contaminate nearby fields. Poisonous or toxic plants may therefore be inadvertently introduced into the wild, or possibly enter the food production system, harming the people and animals who come in contact with them. Risks Relating to Our Incorporation and Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2013. In mid-2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in thousands of rockets being fired from Lebanon and disrupting most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Starting in December 2008, for approximately three weeks, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, which involved rocket attacks against civilian targets in various parts of Israel and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. A similar conflict arose due to Hamas rocket attacks against Israeli civilian targets in November 2012, and recently during July-August 2014, during which Israel responded to rocket attacks by engaging in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Our principal place of business is located in Rehovot, Israel, which is approximately 30 miles from the nearest point of the border with the Gaza Strip. There can be no assurance that attacks launched from the Gaza Strip will not reach our facilities, or that hostilities will not otherwise cause a significant disruption to our operations, such as preventing our employees from reaching our facilities and limiting our ability to monitor and otherwise conduct the crop and other experiments we conduct at the facilities. Several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel or political instability in the region continues or increases. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our products to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and research and development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. In addition, our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2014, we had 207 full-time and 61 part-time employees, all of whom were based in Israel. Our employees in Israel, including executive officers, may be called upon to perform up to 36 days (and in some cases more) of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 45 (and in some cases, up to 49) and, in emergency circumstances, could be called to active duty. In response to increased tension and hostilities, since September 2000 there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, including in connection with the mid-2006 war in Lebanon and the December 2008, November 2012 and July-August 2014 conflicts with Hamas, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our male employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our operations, business and results of operations. 20 The tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes. Our Israeli facilities have the status of an “Approved Enterprise” and “Beneficiary Enterprise” under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law, which makes us eligible for certain tax benefits under that law. For example, we are exempt from corporate tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced corporate tax rate of between 10% to 25% for the remainder of the benefit period, depending on the level of foreign investment in the company in each year. In order to remain eligible for the tax benefits of an Approved Enterprise and Beneficiary Enterprise, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations, as amended, and in a tax ruling we received in October 2010, or the Tax Ruling. If we do not meet these requirements, we may not be eligible to receive tax benefits and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we may receive in the future, in whole or in part, with interest. Further, the tax benefits available under the Investment Law may be terminated or reduced in the future. If these tax benefits are terminated, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies in 2014 was 26.5% and remains the same for the 2015 tax year. See “Item 10.E.Taxation—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs—General Corporate Tax Structure in Israel.” Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel (for example, through acquisitions) our expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs. Finally, in the event of a distribution of a dividend from the income that will be tax exempt under the Investment Law, in addition to withholding tax at a rate of 20% (or a reduced rate under an applicable double tax treaty), we will be subject to tax at the corporate tax rate applicable to our Approved Enterprise’s and Beneficiary Enterprise’s income on the amount distributed in accordance with the reduced corporate tax applicable to such profits. See “Item 10.E.Taxation—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs—Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959.” Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings and we have only partially hedged against such fluctuations. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. The percentage of our revenues denominated in U.S. dollars accounted for 76.1%, 70.6% and 74.7% of our revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We incur expenses primarily in NIS, however, and our expenses in NIS accounted for 88.8%, 91.7% and 89.8% of our expenses in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As a result, any appreciation of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar (as occurred in 2012 and 2013) would adversely impact our profitability due to the portion of our expenses that are incurred in NIS. As of December 31, 2014, we held NIS/USD hedging contracts (forward contracts) designated as hedges of expected future operating expenses. If we continue to enter into hedging contracts in the future, we may be unsuccessful in protecting against currency exchange rate fluctuations. Future currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our profitability. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Risk.” We have received Israeli government grants for certain of our research and development activities. The terms of these grants may require us to satisfy specified conditions in order to develop and transfer technologies supported by such grants outside of Israel. In addition, in some circumstances, we may be required to pay penalties in addition to repaying the grants. Our research and development operations have been partly financed through certain governmental grants, which impose certain restrictions on the transfer outside of Israel of the underlying know-how and the manufacturing or manufacturing rights of the underlying products and technologies. As of December 31, 2014, we had received approximately $4.5 million (approximately NIS 17.5 million) of such grants, on which interest of approximately $1 million (approximately NIS 3.7 million) had accrued as of such date. We may not receive the required approvals should we wish to transfer this know-how, technology or manufacturing rights outside of Israel in the future or, if we receive such required approvals, they may be subject to certain conditions and payment obligations. See “Item 5.B Liquidity and Capital Resources—Government Grants.” 21 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We are incorporated in Israel. None of our directors and executive officers is a resident of the United States, and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located in Israel. The majority of our assets are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. corporations. Since we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and by our amended and restated articles of association, or our “articles of association,” approved by our shareholders in May 2014 at our general shareholders meeting. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger of the company and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from discriminating against other shareholders. In addition, a controlling shareholder or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company has a duty to act in fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. See “Item 6.C Board Practices—Approval of Related Party Transactions Under Israeli Law—Shareholder Duties.” Since Israeli corporate law underwent extensive revisions approximately 13 years ago, the parameters and implications of the provisions that govern shareholder behavior have not been clearly determined. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and requires that a tender offer be effected when certain thresholds of percentage ownership of voting power in a company are exceeded (subject to certain conditions). Further, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel granting tax relief to such shareholders from Israeli tax. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which certain sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. See “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Acquisitions Under Israeli Law.” 22 Furthermore, under the Encouragement of Industrial, Research and Development Law, 5744-1984, to which we are subject due to our receipt of grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy, or OCS, a recipient of OCS grants such as us must report to the applicable authority of OCS any change in the holding of the means of control of our company which transforms any non-Israeli citizen or resident into a direct interested party in our company. The OCS Guidelines interpretation issued by the OCS provides that prior OCS approval is required for such change in the holding of the means of control. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or our shareholders to elect different individuals to our board of directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and the Trading of Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly. Our ordinary shares were first offered publicly in the United States after our initial public offering in the United States, or IPO, in November 2013, at a price of $14.75 per share, and our ordinary shares have subsequently traded on the NYSE as high as $19.99 per share and as low as $8.20 and as of April 15, 2015 were trading at $10.01 per share. However, the market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, including: § actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; § variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; § announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, changes in relationships with our collaborators, acquisitions or expansion plans; § our involvement in litigation; § our sale, or the sale by our significant shareholders, of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; § failure to publish research or the publishing of inaccurate or unfavorable research; § market conditions in our industry and changes in estimates of the future size and growth rate of our markets; § changes in key personnel; § the trading volume of our ordinary shares; and § general economic and market conditions. Although our ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or the “NYSE”, an active trading market on the NYSE for our ordinary shares may not be sustained. If an active market for our ordinary shares is not sustained, it may be difficult to sell ordinary shares in the U.S. In addition, the stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. 23 Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares may decline if we or our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, either the NYSE or the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the “TASE,” or if there is a public perception that these sales may occur in the future. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing shareholders. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by additional offerings of equity securities. Because our decision to issue equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our ordinary shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our ordinary shares and diluting their shareholdings in us. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares have been traded on the TASE since 2007, and are currently listed on NYSE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets will take place in different currencies (U.S. dollars on NYSE and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the price of our ordinary shares on the TASE could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on NYSE. We could become subject to parallel reporting obligations in Israel and the United States, which could increase compliance costs and divert management attention. On July 28, 2013, our shareholders approved our plan to transition solely to U.S. reporting standards under the NYSE. However, should this change, in the future, we may become subject to parallel reporting obligations in Israel and the United States. While similar in many respects, certain differences between Israeli and U.S. reporting schemes may impose on us disclosure obligations that are more stringent than those generally applied to foreign private issuers whose securities are listed only in the United States. In addition, a requirement to comply with the separate reporting obligations under U.S. and Israeli securities laws would require additional management attention and could burden us with additional costs. The requirements of being a public company in the United States and Israel may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Changing laws, regulations and standards, in the United States or Israel, relating to corporate governance and public disclosure and other matters, may be implemented in the future, which may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time consuming and divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Being a publicly traded company in the United States and Israel and being subject to U.S. and Israeli rules and regulations make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. As a public company whose ordinary shares are listed in the United States, we will continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, including costs associated with our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. We could also incur additional costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act,” rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, and provisions of Israeli corporate law applicable to public companies. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. These rules and regulations could continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, such as the cost of hiring consultants or testing compliance processes, and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 As an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the “JOBS Act,” we take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder). When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. As an “emerging growth company”, we are currently not required to obtain an auditor attestation regarding management’s assessment of our internal control. Further, if we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. As of this annual report, we are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act pursuant to which our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, only in 2014 did we commence the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. This process requires the investment of substantial time and resources, including by our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management. We cannot predict whether we will need to implement remedial actions in the future in order to maintain effective control over financial reporting. The determination and any remedial actions required could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate. Further, under the JOBS Act, as of December 31, 2014, we are not required to obtain an auditor attestation to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) since, among other things, as of June 30, 2014, our market capitalization related to public holdings was under $700 million and our status as an “emerging growth company” was preserved. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.0 billion; (b) December 31, 2018, the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. Unless we lose our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the year ended December 31, 2018. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. As a foreign private issuer we are not subject to the provisions of Regulation FD or U.S. proxy rules and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, we are permitted to disclose limited compensation information for our executive officers on an individual basis and we are generally exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Despite this, we have undertaken to our shareholders to report our financial results on a quarterly basis. Moreover, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material nonpublic information to, among others, broker-dealers and holders of a company’s securities under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that the holder will trade in the company’s securities on the basis of the information. These exemptions and leniencies will reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you may otherwise have been eligible in relation to a U.S. domestic issuer. 25 As a foreign private issuer, we follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer, in reliance on Section 303A.11 of the Listed Company Manual, which permits a foreign private issuer to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country, we have chosen to follow certain Israeli corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the NYSE corporate governance standards for U.S. domestic issuers. For example, in lieu of complying with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, we follow home country practices in Israel with respect to separate executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company and issuances of more than 1% of our outstanding shares or voting power to our affiliates). In addition, we did not adopt corporate governance guidelines, which are required of U.S. companies under NYSE rules. Accordingly, our shareholders are not afforded the same protection as provided under NYSE corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on NYSE may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. For further discussion, see “Item 16G.Corporate Governance.” While we take advantage of certain exemptions applicable to foreign private issuers under the U.S. federal securities laws and NYSE rules, our disclosure practices are still more burdensome than many other Israeli companies whose securities are traded in the United States. Although not required to do so pursuant to the exemption for foreign private issuers under NYSE corporate governance rules, we have undertaken to our shareholders to (i) continue reporting our financial results on a quarterly basis and (ii) continue disclosing management and board compensation in accordance with the applicable requirements under the Israeli Securities Law. Providing this information imposes additional obligations on us that are unusual for Israeli companies whose securities are traded in the U.S. We may lose our status as a foreign private issuer, which would increase our compliance costs and could thereby negatively impact our results of operations. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if (a) a majority of our outstanding voting securities were either directly or indirectly owned of record by residents of the United States and (b)(i) a majority of our executive officers or directors were United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50 percent of our assets were located in the United States or (iii) our business were administered principally outside the United States. Our loss of foreign private issuer status would make U.S. regulatory provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would also be required to follow U.S. proxy disclosure requirements, including the requirement to disclose, under U.S. law, more detailed information about the compensation of our senior executive officers on an individual basis. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with accepted governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we would lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. 26 Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. According to these rules, a publicly traded non-U.S. corporation may treat the aggregate fair market value of its assets as being equal to the sum of the aggregate value of its outstanding shares (“Market Capitalization”) and the total amount of its liabilities. We take the position that the excess of our Market Capitalization plus liabilities over the book value of all of our assets (“Goodwill”) may generally be treated as a non-passive asset to the extent attributable to our non-passive activities. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets and the nature of our business, were believe that we were classified as a PFIC in 2014 and we do not expect that we will be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2015; however, because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents and other passive assets used in our business, and because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large party by reference to the market prices of our securities, we could be classified as a PFIC for a given taxable year if our Market Capitalization were to decrease significantly. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than a capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10.E.Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”), and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. If we are characterized as a PFIC, certain elections may be available that would alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment) of our ordinary shares; however, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. See “Item 10.E.Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 