ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and our common stock are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with our recent separation from our former parent, United Online. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K. Based on information currently known, we believe that the 12 Table of Contents following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our business, our common stock, and risks associated with our recent separation from United Online. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could materially decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Current or future economic conditions may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Economic conditions in the U.S. and the European Union have been depressed and may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Our products and services are discretionary and dependent upon levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending patterns are difficult to predict and are sensitive to, among other factors, the general economic climate, consumers' levels of disposable income, consumer debt, and overall consumer confidence. These challenging economic conditions have adversely impacted certain aspects of our businesses in a number of ways, including reduced demand, more aggressive pricing for similar products and services by our competitors, increased credit risks, increased credit card failures, a loss of customers, and increased use of discounted pricing for certain of our products and services. It is likely that these and other factors will continue to adversely impact our businesses, at least in the near term. The challenging economic conditions may adversely impact our key vendors and customers. Such economic conditions and decreased consumer spending have, in certain cases, resulted in, and may in the future result in, a variety of negative effects such as a reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin and operating margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, and recognition of impairments of assets, including goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The consumer market for flowers and gifts is highly competitive and fragmented as consumers can purchase the products we offer from numerous sources, including traditional local retail florists, supermarkets, mass merchants, gift retailers, and floral and gift mass marketers. We believe the primary competitive factors in the consumer market are price, quality of products, selection, fulfillment capabilities, customer service, ordering convenience, and strength of brand. In both the U.S. and the U.K., our key competitors in the consumer market include online, catalog and floral and gift retailers and mass market retailers with floral departments. The floral network services market is highly competitive as well, and retail florists and supermarkets may choose from a variety of providers that offer similar products and services. In addition, the number of retail florists has been declining over a number of years. As the number of retail florists decreases, competition for the business of the remaining retail florists will intensify. Our key competitors in the U.S. floral network services market include providers of online or e-commerce services, retailers and wholesalers of floral-related products and other floral network services. In the International market our key competitors include other floral network service providers. We face intense competition in the consumer market. We expect that the sales volumes at supermarkets and mass merchants will continue to increase, and that other online floral mass marketers will continue to increase their competition with us. In particular, the nature of the internet as a marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparative shopping, and we continue to experience increased competition as a result. Some of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages 13 Table of Contents over us, may engage in more significant discounting, may devote significantly greater resources to marketing campaigns or other aspects of their business or may respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities or customer requirements. Increased competition in the consumer market or the floral network services market may result in lower revenues, reduced gross margins, loss of market share, and increased marketing expenditures. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our revenues and operating results fluctuate on a seasonal basis and may suffer if revenues during peak seasons do not meet our expectations. Our business is seasonal, and our quarterly revenues and operating results typically exhibit seasonality. For example, revenues and operating results tend to be lower for the quarter ending September 30 because none of the most popular floral and gift holidays, which include Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas, fall within that quarter. In addition, depending on the year, Easter and the U.K. Mother's Day sometimes fall within the quarter ending March 31 and sometimes fall within the quarter ending June 30. Our operating results may suffer if revenues during our peak seasons do not meet expectations, as we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset increased costs incurred in preparation for peak seasons. Our working capital and cash flows also fluctuate during the year as a result of the factors set forth above. Moreover, the operational risks described elsewhere in these risk factors may be significantly exacerbated if those risks were to occur during a peak season. We are dependent on our strategic relationships to help promote our consumer websites. Failure to establish, maintain or enhance these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that our strategic relationships with leading online retailers and direct marketers are critical to attract customers, facilitate broad market acceptance of our products and brands and enhance our sales and marketing capabilities. A failure to maintain existing strategic relationships or to establish additional relationships that generate a significant amount of traffic from other websites could limit the growth of our business. Establishing and maintaining relationships with leading online retailers and direct marketers is competitive and expensive. We may not successfully enter into additional strategic relationships. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing strategic relationships beyond their current terms or may be required to pay significant fees to maintain and expand these strategic relationships. Further, many online retailers and direct marketers that we may approach to establish an advertising presence or with whom we already have an existing relationship may also provide advertising services for our competitors. As a result, these companies may be reluctant to enter into, maintain or expand a strategic relationship with us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer if we fail to enter into new strategic relationships, or maintain or expand existing strategic relationships, or if these strategic relationships do not result in traffic on our websites sufficient to justify their costs. In addition, we are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of our strategic relationships. For example, if any of the online retailers or direct marketers with which we have strategic relationships experience financial or operational difficulties that materially and adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our marketing efforts may not be successful or may become more expensive, either of which could increase our costs and adversely impact our key metrics and financial results. We spend significant resources marketing our brands, products, and services. We rely on relationships with a wide variety of third parties, including internet search providers such as Google, internet advertising networks, retailers, and direct marketers, to source new customers and to promote our products and services. In addition, from time to time, we may spend a significant amount on marketing, including through television advertising. With any of our brands, products, and services, if our marketing activities are inefficient or unsuccessful, if important third-party relationships or marketing strategies, such as internet search engine marketing and search engine optimization, become more expensive or unavailable, or are suspended or terminated, for any reason, if there is an increase in the proportion of consumers visiting our websites or purchasing our products and services by way of marketing channels with higher marketing costs as compared to channels that have lower or no associated marketing costs, or if our marketing efforts do not result in our products and services being prominently ranked in internet search listings, our key metrics and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our consumer business relies heavily on email campaigns, and any disruptions or restrictions on the sending of emails or increase in the associated costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We generate a significant portion of our consumer orders from the emails we send to customers who have previously ordered products from us. We also engage in a number of third-party email marketing campaigns in which such third parties include our marketing offers in the emails they send. An increase in the number of customers to whom we are not able to send emails, or who elect to not receive or are unable to receive our emails could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. From time to time, internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails to our customers. Third parties may also block, impose restrictions on, or start to charge for, the delivery of emails through their email systems. Due to the importance of email to our businesses, any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or increase in the associated costs could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are dependent on third parties who fulfill orders and deliver goods and services to our customers and their failure to provide our customers with high-quality products within the required timeframe and maintain a high level of customer service may harm our brands and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that our success in promoting and enhancing our brands depends on our ability to provide our customers high-quality products within the required timeframe and maintain a high level of customer service. Our business depends, in part, on the ability of our floral network members and third-party suppliers who fulfill our orders to do so at high-quality levels. We work with our floral network members and third-party suppliers to develop best practices for quality assurance; however, we generally do not directly control or continuously monitor any floral network member or third-party supplier. A failure to maintain our relationship with key floral network members or third-party suppliers or the failure of our floral network members or third-party suppliers to fulfill orders to our customers' satisfaction, at an acceptable level of quality and within the required timeframe, could adversely impact our brands and cause us to lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, because we depend upon third parties for the delivery of our products to customers, strikes or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could have an adverse effect on our ability 15 Table of Contents to deliver our products on a timely basis. If any of our shippers are unable or unwilling to deliver our products, we would have to engage alternative shippers, which could increase our costs. A disruption in any of our shippers' delivery of our products could cause us to lose customers or could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We face risks relating to operating and doing business internationally that could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Our businesses operate in a number of countries outside the U.S., principally the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland for our Interflora subsidiary, and also India for our technology development and support operations. Conducting international operations involves risks and uncertainties, including: •adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added taxes and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •increased financial accounting, tax and reporting burdens and complexities; •compliance with United States laws affecting operations outside the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign regulatory requirements; •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, regulations, and legal and regulatory standards; •political, social, and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property and proprietary rights. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations, our key business metrics, and our financial results. The success of our business is dependent on our floral network members and on the financial performance of the retail floral industry. A significant portion of our profitability is dependent on our floral network members. The amount of revenues and profits we generate from individual floral network members can vary significantly. We have lost, and may continue to lose, floral network members as a result of declines in the number of local retail florists as a result of economic factors and competition, as well as our members choosing not to do business with us. There can be no assurance that the decline in the number of floral network members will not increase in the future, or that we will not lose floral network members that generate significant revenues for our business, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, the operating and financial success of our business has been, and is expected to continue to be, dependent on the financial performance of the retail floral industry. There can be no assurance that the retail floral industry will not decline, that consumer preferences for, and purchases of, floral products will not decline, or that retail florist revenues or inter-city floral delivery transactions will not decline in absolute terms. A sustained decline in the sales volume of the retail floral industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Shifts in the mix of products versus services sold, and types of products and services sold, may adversely affect our financial results. The cost of revenues associated with our products revenues is generally higher than that associated with our services revenues. In addition, the cost of revenues associated with certain products and services may be higher than that associated with other products and services. As a result, changes in the proportion of revenues that is represented by products revenues versus services revenues, and certain types of products and services versus others, may adversely affect our revenues, cost of revenues, cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and income from operations. Shifts in the mix of products and services sold at standard pricing as compared to discounted pricing or the failure to maintain our standard pricing for products and services could have adverse effects on our financial results. Due to economic conditions and for competitive and other reasons, we have been offering broader and greater discounts to the consumer, both on a promotional basis to consumers generally, as well as through strategic arrangements with third parties that have a fixed, and in certain cases greater, discount or other associated costs. We also offer discounts on our floral network service fees from time to time on a promotional basis. Shifts in the mix of products and services sold that have resulted in increases in the proportion of products and services sold at a discount, and at times at greater discounts, including through such strategic arrangements, have resulted, and may in the future result, in reduced revenues, an increase in cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, and a decrease in operating income. We currently intend to continue selling a portion of our products and services at a discount, including through such strategic arrangements, and there are no assurances that the portion of products and services sold at a discount will not continue to increase. The continued use of discounts, including through such strategic arrangements, for our products and services may result in our becoming more reliant upon offering discounts in order to sell our products and services, which could result in our having to reduce our standard pricing, and may adversely impact our financial results. If the supply of flowers becomes limited, the price of our floral products could rise or our floral products may become unavailable, which could result in our not being able to meet consumer demand and could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Many factors, such as weather conditions, agricultural limitations, restrictions relating to the management of pests and disease, and fair trade and other social or environmental issues, affect the supply of flowers and the price of our floral products. If the supply of flowers available for sale is limited, the wholesale prices of flowers could rise, which would cause us to increase our prices or could result in a reduction in our profits. An increase in our prices could result in a decline in customer demand for our floral products, which would decrease our revenues. Alternatively, we may not be able to obtain high-quality flowers in an amount sufficient to meet consumer demand. Even if available, flowers from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than those currently offered by us. A large portion of our supply of flowers is sourced from Colombia, Ecuador, Holland, and Kenya. The availability and price of our products could be affected by a number of other factors affecting suppliers, including: •severe weather; •disease, infestation, and other biological problems; •import duties and quotas; 17 Table of Contents •time-consuming import regulations or controls at airports; •changes in trading status; •economic uncertainties and currency fluctuations, including as a result of the recent volatility and disruptions in the credit markets and general economy; •foreign government laws and regulations; •political, social, and economic instability, terrorist attacks, and security concerns in general; •nationalization; •fair trade and other social or environmental certifications, requirements or practices; •governmental bans or quarantines; •disruption in transportation and delivery; •trade restrictions, including U.S. retaliation against foreign trade practices; and •transportation availability and costs. Our business could be shut down or severely impacted by a catastrophic event. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a catastrophic event. A disaster such as a fire, earthquake, flood, power loss, terrorism, or other similar event, affecting any of our facilities, data centers or computer systems, or those of our third-party vendors, or a system interruption or delay that slows down the internet or makes the internet or our websites temporarily unavailable, could result in a significant and extended disruption of our operations and services. Any prolonged disruption of our services due to these or other events would severely impact our business. We do not carry flood insurance for our facilities, and the property, business interruption and other insurance we do carry may not be sufficient to cover, if at all, losses that may occur as a result of any events which cause interruptions in our services. Our success is dependent on the intellectual property that we use. We regard the "FTD" and "Interflora" trademarks, the "Mercury Man" logo, the "FTD.COM", the "Interflora.co.uk" and other internet domain names and the other service marks, trademarks, and other intellectual property that we use in our business as being critical to our success. Our company and our subsidiaries have applied for the registration of, and have been issued, trademark registrations for trademarks and service marks used in our business in the U.S., the U.K. and various other foreign countries; however, in some other countries, there are certain pre-existing and potentially conflicting trademark registrations held by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and license and other agreements with employees, customers and others to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may also rely on the third-party owners of the intellectual property rights we license to protect those rights. We license some of our intellectual property rights, including the Mercury Man logo, to third parties. The steps taken by us and those third parties to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate, and other third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property in internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We are also subject to the risk of claims alleging that our business practices infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. These claims could result in lengthy and costly litigation. Moreover, resolution of any such claim against us may require our company or one of our subsidiaries 18 Table of Contents to obtain a license to use the intellectual property rights at issue or possibly to cease using those rights altogether. Any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Significant problems with our key systems or those of our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The systems underlying the operations of our business are complex and diverse and must efficiently integrate with third-party systems, such as credit card processors. Key systems include, without limitation, order transmission, fulfillment and processing, including the systems for transmitting orders through our floral networks; billing; website and database management; customer support; telecommunications network management; and internal financial systems. Some of these systems are outsourced to third parties, and other systems, such as Interflora's order transmission, fulfillment and billing system and our customer service telephone system, are not redundant. All information technology and communication systems are subject to reliability issues, denial of service attacks, integration and compatibility concerns, and security threatening intrusions. The continued and uninterrupted performance of our key systems is critical to our success. Unanticipated problems affecting these systems could cause interruptions in our services. In addition, if our third-party vendors face financial or other difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. Any significant errors, damage, failures, interruptions, delays, or other problems with our systems or our third-party vendors or their systems could adversely impact our ability to satisfy our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be unable to increase capacity or introduce enhancements to our consumer websites or our toll-free telephone numbers in a timely manner or without service interruptions. A key element of our business strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic on our consumer websites and through our toll-free telephone numbers. However, we may not be able to accommodate all of the growth in user demand on our consumer websites or through our toll-free telephone numbers. Our inability to add additional hardware and software to upgrade our existing technology or network infrastructure to accommodate, in a timely manner, increased traffic to our consumer websites or increased volume through our toll-free telephone numbers, may cause decreased levels of customer service and satisfaction. Failure to implement new systems effectively or within a reasonable period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We also regularly introduce additional or enhanced features and services to retain current customers and attract new customers to our consumer websites. If we introduce a feature or a service that is not favorably received, our current customers may not use our consumer websites as frequently, or we may not be successful in attracting new customers. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new services and features. Furthermore, these new services or features may contain errors that are discovered only after they are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these services or features to correct errors. If customers encounter difficulty with or do not accept new services or features, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business could suffer as a result of significant credit card or debit card fraud. Orders placed on our consumer websites or through our toll-free telephone numbers typically are paid for using a credit card or debit card. Our revenues and gross margins could decrease if we experience significant credit card or debit card fraud. Failure to adequately detect and avoid fraudulent credit card or debit card transactions could cause us to lose our ability to accept credit cards or debit cards as forms of payment and result in charge-backs of the fraudulently charged amounts. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, widespread credit card or debit card fraud may lessen our customers' willingness to purchase products on our consumer websites or through our toll-free telephone numbers. As a result, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are exposed to the credit risk of our floral network members. When an FTD or Interflora floral network member fulfills an order from an originating member, we become liable to the fulfilling member for payment on the order, even if we do not receive payment from the originating member. Accordingly, we are exposed to the credit risk of our floral network members. Although we reserve for this exposure, we cannot be sure that the exposure will not be greater than we anticipate. An increase in this exposure, coupled with material instances of default, in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect comparisons of our operating results. We transact business in different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Indian Rupee. Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies translate into higher or lower revenues and expenses in U.S. Dollars as the U.S. Dollar weakens or strengthens against such other currencies. Substantially all of the revenues of our international businesses are received, and substantially all expenses are incurred, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, which increases or decreases the related U.S. Dollar-reported revenues and expenses depending on the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our key business metrics, such as average order value, are similarly affected by such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in global economic conditions, market factors, and governmental actions, among other factors, can affect the value of these currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar. A strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to these currencies and, in particular, to the British Pound and the Euro, has had, and in future periods could have, an adverse effect on the comparisons of our revenues and operating income against prior periods. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results, and such fluctuations could negatively impact the comparisons of such results against prior periods. Changes in laws and regulations and new laws and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation, those relating to taxation, bulk email or "spam," advertising, including, without limitation, targeted or behavioral advertising, user privacy and data protection, consumer protection, antitrust, and unclaimed property. Compliance with the various laws and regulations, which in many instances are either unclear or unsettled, is complex. New laws and regulations, such as those being considered or recently enacted by certain states or the federal government related to automatic-renewal practices, user privacy, targeted or behavioral advertising, floral-related fees and advertising, and taxation, could impact our revenues or certain of our business practices or those of our advertisers. Any changes in the laws and regulations applicable to us, the enactment of any additional laws or regulations, or the failure to comply with, or increased enforcement activity of, such laws and regulations, could significantly impact our products and services, our costs, or the manner in which we or our advertisers conduct business, all of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause our business to suffer. 20 Table of Contents Foreign, state, and local governments may attempt to impose additional sales and use taxes, value added taxes or other taxes on our business activities, including our past sales, which could decrease our ability to compete, reduce our sales, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In accordance with current industry practice by domestic floral and gift order gatherers and our interpretation of applicable law, our consumer business collects and remits sales and use taxes on consumer orders that are delivered in a limited number of states where it has a physical presence or other form of jurisdictional nexus. If states successfully challenge this practice and impose sales and use taxes on orders delivered in states where we do not have physical presence or another form of jurisdictional nexus, we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales and lose future sales as a result of the increased tax cost that would be borne by the customer. Also, states may seek to reclassify the status of internet order gatherers, such as our consumer business, as persons that are deemed to fulfill the underlying order, in which case, a state may seek to impose taxes on the receipts generated from consumer orders fulfilled and delivered by florists outside such state. In addition, future changes in the operation of our online and telephonic sales channels could result in the imposition of additional sales and use tax or other tax obligations. Additionally, in accordance with current industry practice by international floral and gift direct marketers and our interpretation of applicable law, we collect and remit value added taxes on certain consumer orders placed through Interflora. Future changes in the operation of our business could result in the imposition of additional tax obligations. Moreover, if a foreign taxing authority successfully challenges our current practice or implements new legislative initiatives, we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales and lose future sales as a result of the increased tax costs that would be borne by the customer. The imposition of additional tax liabilities for past or future sales could decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and reduce our sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to income and various other taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our consolidated provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income and other taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions, and our historical recognition of other tax matters. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In connection with our internet-based transactions, a number of states have been considering or adopting legislation or instituting policy initiatives, including those that would facilitate a finding of nexus to exist between internet companies with the states, aimed at expanding the reach of sales and use taxes or imposing state income or other taxes on various innovative theories, including agency attribution from independent third-party service providers. Such legislation or initiatives could result in the imposition of additional sales and use taxes, or the payment of state income or other taxes, on certain transactions conducted over the internet. In addition, advertisers and other third parties may choose to not do business with us in order to avoid nexus with certain states. If such legislation is enacted, or such initiatives are instituted, and unless overturned by the courts, the legislation or initiatives could subject us to substantially increased tax liabilities for past and future sales or state income or other taxes, require us to collect additional sales and use taxes, cause our future sales to decrease, or otherwise negatively impact our businesses, and thus have a material adverse effect on us. 21 Table of Contents Legal actions or investigations could subject us to substantial liability, require us to change our business practices, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are currently, and have been in the past, party to various legal actions and investigations. These actions may include, without limitation, claims by private parties in connection with consumer protection and other laws, claims that we infringe third-party patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, securities laws claims, claims involving marketing practices or unfair competition, claims in connection with employment practices, breach of contract claims, and other business-related claims. The nature of our business could subject us to additional claims for similar matters, as well as a wide variety of other claims, including, without limitation, for privacy and security matters. The failure to successfully defend against these and other types of claims, including claims relating to our business practices, could result in our incurring significant liabilities related to judgments or settlements or require us to change our business practices. Infringement claims may also result in our being required to obtain licenses from third parties, which licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Both the cost of defending claims, as well as the effect of settlements and judgments, could cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we also file actions against third parties from time to time for various reasons, including, without limitation, to protect our intellectual property rights, to enforce our contractual rights, or to make other business-related claims. The legal fees, costs and expenses associated with these actions may be significant, and if we were to lose these actions, we may be required to pay the other party's legal fees, costs and expenses, which also may be significant and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Various governmental agencies have in the past asserted claims, instituted legal actions, inquiries or investigations, or imposed obligations relating to our business practices, such as our marketing, billing, customer retention, renewal, cancellation, refund, or disclosure practices, and they may continue to do so in the future. We and United Online have received civil investigative demands and subpoenas, as applicable, from the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and the Attorneys General of various states, primarily regarding their respective investigations into certain former post-transaction sales practices and certain of our and United Online's marketing, billing, renewal and privacy practices and disclosures. We and United Online have been cooperating with these investigations. However, the outcome of these or any other governmental investigations or their potential implications for our business are uncertain. We and United Online may not prevail in existing or future claims and any judgment against us or settlement or resolution of such claims may involve the payment of significant sums, including damages, fines, penalties, or assessments, or changes to our business practices. For example, in 2010, FTD, Inc. paid $640,000 to resolve an investigation of the Attorney General for the State of New York related to FTD, Inc.'s former post-transaction sales practices. Defending against lawsuits, inquiries, and investigations also involves significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. There are no assurances that additional governmental investigations or other legal actions will not be instituted in connection with our former post-transaction sales practices or other current or former business practices. Enforcement actions or changes in enforcement policies and procedures could result in changes to our business practices, as well as significant damages, fines, penalties or assessments, which could decrease our revenues or increase the costs of operating our business. To the extent that our services and business practices change as a result of claims or actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or we are required to pay significant sums, including damages, fines, penalties, or assessments, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents The Separation and Distribution Agreement which was executed between us and United Online in connection with the Separation provides United Online with the right to control the litigation and settlement of certain litigation matters that relate to us, United Online, and our respective predecessors and consolidated subsidiaries, which were asserted before the Separation, as well as specified litigation matters that are asserted after the Separation. These matters include the ongoing matters relating to our and United Online's former post-transaction sales practices referenced above and other current or former business practices. These matters include the investigations referenced above relating to certain post-transaction sales practices and certain other current or former business practices. See Note 15—"Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Matters" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The Separation and Distribution Agreement also provides United Online with the right to allocate certain liabilities and expenses to us with respect to these matters. We and United Online may not prevail in these or other existing or future legal claims and any judgments against us and, in respect of the matters under United Online's control, we have limited rights to contest the terms of any settlement or other resolution agreed to by United Online and its allocation of liabilities and expenses to us. It is possible that we and United Online may have differing interests in respect of the terms of any such settlement or other resolution of the matters under United Online's control. The settlement or other resolution of litigation claims by us, or by United Online in respect of the matters under United Online's control, may involve the payment of significant sums, including damages, fines, penalties, or assessments, or changes to our business practices, and may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Governmental regulation of the collection and use of personal information or our failure to comply with these regulations could harm our businesses. The FTC has regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information obtained from individuals when accessing websites, with particular emphasis on access by minors. In addition, other governmental authorities have regulations to govern the collection and use of personal information that may be obtained from customers or visitors to websites. These regulations include requirements that procedures be established to disclose and notify users of our websites of our privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information and provide users with the ability to access, correct or delete personal information stored by us. In addition, the FTC and other governmental authorities have made inquiries and investigations of companies' practices with respect to their users' personal information collection and dissemination practices to confirm these are consistent with stated privacy policies and to determine whether precautions are taken to secure consumers' personal information. The FTC and certain state agencies also have made inquiries, and in a number of situations, brought actions against companies to enforce the privacy policies of these companies, including policies relating to security of consumers' personal information. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, we have been cooperating with the Attorneys General of various states in connection with their inquiries and investigations of, among other things, the privacy policy of our FTD.COM business. Becoming subject to the regulatory and enforcement efforts of the FTC, a state agency or other governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our marketing efforts, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the adverse publicity regarding the existence or results of an investigation could have an adverse impact on customers' willingness to use our websites and services and thus could adversely impact our future revenues. Certain of our international businesses, such as our international consumer and floral network businesses, must also comply with data protection and privacy laws in the U.K., including the Data Protection Act 1998. If we or any of the third-party services on which we rely fail to transmit customer 23 Table of Contents information and payment details in a secure manner, or if they otherwise fail to protect customer privacy in online transactions or if they transfer personal information outside the European Economic Area without complying with certain required conditions, then we risk being exposed to civil and criminal liability in the U.K., usually in the form of fines, as well as claims from individuals alleging damages as a result of the alleged non-compliance. We may also be required to alter our data collection and use practices. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring additional businesses, services or technologies. Even if we make acquisitions, it may not improve our results of operations and may also adversely impact our business, financial condition, and cash flows. Acquisitions of businesses, services or technologies may provide us with an opportunity to diversify the products and services we offer, leverage our assets and core competencies, complement our existing businesses, or expand our geographic reach. We may evaluate a wide variety of potential strategic transactions that we believe may complement our existing businesses. However, we may not realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of an acquisition, and our attempts at integrating an acquired business may not be successful. Acquiring a business, service or technology involves many operational and financial risks, including risks relating to: •disruption of our ongoing business and significant diversion of resources and management time from day-to-day responsibilities; •acquisition financings that involve the issuance of potentially dilutive equity or the incurrence of debt; •reduction of cash and other resources available for operations and other uses; •exposure to risks specific to the acquired business, service or technology to which we are not currently exposed; •risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; •unforeseen obligations or liabilities; •difficulty assimilating the acquired customer bases, technologies, and operations; •difficulty assimilating and retaining management and employees of the acquired business; •potential impairment of relationships with users, customers or vendors as a result of changes in management of the acquired business or other factors; •large write-offs either at the time of the acquisition or in the future, the incurrence of restructuring and other exit costs, the amortization of identifiable intangible assets, and the impairment of amounts capitalized as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets; and •lack of, or inadequate, controls, policies, and procedures appropriate for a public company, and the time, cost, and difficulties related to the implementation of such controls, policies, and procedures or the remediation of any deficiencies. In addition, an acquisition of a foreign business involves risks in addition to those set forth above, including risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, potentially unfamiliar economic, political, and regulatory environments, and integration difficulties due to language, cultural, and geographic differences. Any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents We utilize outsourced staff and temporary employees, who may not be as well trained or committed to our customers as our permanent employees, and their failure to provide our customers with high-quality customer service may cause our customers not to return, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We utilize and rely on a significant number of outsourced staff and temporary employees, in addition to our permanent employees, to take orders and respond to customer inquiries. These outsourced staff and temporary employees may not have the same level of commitment to our customers or be as well trained as our permanent employees. In addition, we may not hire enough outsourced staff or temporary employees to adequately handle the increased volume of telephone calls we receive during peak periods. We maintain only a limited number of permanent customer support employees and rely on one third-party vendor for our outsourced customer support. Our permanent employees may not be able to provide the necessary range or level of customer support services in the event that our third-party vendor unexpectedly becomes unable or unwilling to provide some or all of these services to us. If our customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the customer service they receive, they may not place orders with us again, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, our flexibility in operating our business, and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. At December 31, 2013, we had $220 million of indebtedness outstanding, which is due in July 2018. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences for our business and financial condition. For example: •If we fail to meet payment obligations or otherwise default under our debt, the lenders will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. •We will be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to make interest payments on the debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions, and other purposes. •Our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate requirements could be limited. In addition, our ability to borrow additional amounts under our revolving credit facility, which is a significant source of liquidity, is subject to the absence of defaults and our ability to make representations contained in our revolving credit facility. Failure to meet our borrowing conditions under our revolving credit facility could materially and adversely impact our liquidity. •Our debt imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to use cash flows for the benefit of our subsidiaries, and compliance with such covenants and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to adequately finance our operations or capital needs, pursue attractive business opportunities that may arise, redeem or repurchase capital stock, pay dividends, sell assets, and make capital expenditures. •Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default on our debt. Upon an event of default, the lenders of that debt could elect to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become immediately due and payable and we would be unable to access our revolving credit facility. An event of default could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. •We will experience increased vulnerability to, and limited flexibility in planning for, changes to our businesses and adverse economic and industry conditions. 25 Table of Contents •We may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies with less indebtedness. •The interest rates under our debt will fluctuate and, accordingly, interest expense may increase. Under the terms of the 2013 Credit Agreement (as defined below), we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain conditions, and the risks described above may be increased if we incur additional indebtedness. In addition, the 2013 Credit Agreement includes guarantees on a joint and several basis by certain of our existing and future, direct and indirect, wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and is secured by first priority security interests in, and mortgages on, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets and the assets of certain of our direct and indirect domestic, wholly-owned subsidiaries and first priority pledges of all the equity interests owned by us in certain of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries (except with respect to foreign subsidiaries and certain domestic subsidiaries whose assets consist primarily of foreign subsidiary equity interests, in which case such pledges are limited to 66% of the outstanding capital stock). The occurrence of an event of default under the 2013 Credit Agreement could permit the lenders to cause all amounts outstanding under the 2013 Credit Agreement to become immediately due and payable, terminate the commitments of such lenders to make further extensions of credit under the 2013 Credit Agreement, call and enforce the guarantees, and foreclose on the collateral securing such debt. We may increase our debt level or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health and may decrease our profitability. To execute our business strategy, we may require additional capital. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than currently in place. If we issue additional common equity, either through public or private offerings or rights offerings, your percentage ownership in our company would decline if you do not participate on a ratable basis. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required, it could affect our liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. An increase in interest rates may increase our overall interest expense. A rapid increase in interest rates could have an immediate adverse impact on us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt. Although we attempt to mitigate interest rate risk by utilizing interest rate hedges, there is no assurance that our efforts will be fully successful. In addition, in the event of an increase in interest rates, we may be unable to refinance maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates. Our business is subject to online security risks, and a security breach or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services or those of third-party vendors could expose us to liability, claims, and a loss of revenue. The success of our business depends on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party vendors. In connection with conducting our business in the ordinary course, we store and transmit customer and member information, including personally identifiable information. Unauthorized or inappropriate access to, or use of, our networks, computer systems or services, whether intentional, unintentional or as a result of criminal activity, could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our customers and of third parties. A number of other websites have publicly disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or 26 Table of Contents sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose members, customers or vendors. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or the information of our members or customers, cause interruption in our operations, or damage our computers or those of our members or customers. A significant number of our members and customers authorize us to bill their payment card accounts (credit or debit) directly for all amounts charged by us. These members and customers provide payment card information and other personally identifiable information which, depending on the particular payment plan, may be maintained to facilitate future payment card transactions. We rely on third-party and internally-developed encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee, can also result in a data breach. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the banks that issue the payment cards for their related expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give our members and customers the option of using payment cards. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our businesses would be seriously harmed. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach related to us or the parties with which we have commercial relationships, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation, and possible liability. We cannot assure you that the security measures we take will be effective in preventing these types of activities. We also cannot assure you that the security measures of our third-party vendors, including network providers, providers of customer and billing support services, and other vendors, will be adequate. In addition to potential legal liability, these activities may adversely impact our reputation or our revenues and may interfere with our ability to provide our products and services, all of which could adversely impact our business. In addition, the coverage and limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Risks Relating to the Separation If the distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then the distribution could result in significant tax liabilities. United Online received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and an opinion of tax counsel, each substantially to the effect that the Separation and the distribution of shares of FTD Companies, Inc. common stock qualifies as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes and will not result in the recognition, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss by United Online, Inc. or its stockholders. The IRS ruling and the tax opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, and undertakings, and certain representations from United Online and us, regarding the past and future conduct of both respective businesses and other matters, and the tax opinion relies on the IRS ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings is not correct, or that the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the tax opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. 27 Table of Contents If the distribution ultimately were to be determined to be taxable, then a stockholder of United Online that received shares of our common stock in the distribution would be treated as having received a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the distribution date and could incur significant income tax liabilities. Such distribution would be taxable to such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of United Online's current and accumulated earnings and profits. Any amount that exceeded United Online's earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in its shares of United Online stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, United Online would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the shares of common stock of our company held by United Online on the distribution date over United Online's tax basis in such shares. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement that we entered into with United Online, we are generally responsible for any taxes imposed on United Online that arise from the failure of the distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Sharing Agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS ruling or the representation letter provided to counsel in connection with the tax opinion. The amounts of such taxes could be significant. Our success depends in part on our ongoing relationship with United Online after the Separation. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a number of agreements with United Online that govern the ongoing relationships between United Online and its subsidiaries and us after the Separation. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance of these ongoing relationships with United Online and its subsidiaries and their performance of their obligations under these agreements. As described more fully above, the Separation and Distribution Agreement governs the rights and obligations of our company and United Online regarding the Separation and provides United Online with the right to control the litigation and settlement of certain litigation matters that relate to us, United Online, and our respective predecessors and consolidated subsidiaries, which were asserted before the Separation, as well as specified litigation matters which are asserted after the Separation. The Tax Sharing Agreement governs the rights, responsibilities and obligations of United Online and our company with regard to various tax matters, including the payment of taxes, the preparation of tax returns and the administration of tax audits and disputes. The Tax Sharing Agreement allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the United Online consolidated tax reporting group between us and United Online. If however, United Online were unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state, local, or foreign law may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. The agreements that we entered into with United Online may involve, or may appear to involve, conflicts of interest. In connection with the Separation, we entered into certain agreements with United Online which provide for the allocation between the Company and United Online of certain assets, liabilities, and obligations of United Online and its subsidiaries, and will govern the relationship between United Online and us following the Separation. We negotiated these agreements with United Online while we were still a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Online. Accordingly, some of our executive officers and directors were employees or directors of United Online or its subsidiaries at the time of the negotiations and, as such, had an obligation to serve the interests of United Online and its subsidiaries. As a result, they could be viewed as having had a conflict of interest. 28 Table of Contents Certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their cross directorships and stock ownership with United Online. We continue to have overlap in directors with United Online, which may lead to conflicting interests. Our board of directors includes Robert Berglass (the Chairman of our Board of Directors), James T. Armstrong, and Dennis Holt, who are members of the board of directors of United Online and have fiduciary duties to both United Online's and our stockholders. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. We are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of United Online following the Separation. After the Separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of United Online may become our obligations. For example, under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the United Online consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire United Online consolidated tax reporting group for such taxable period. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement with United Online that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the United Online consolidated tax reporting group between our company and United Online. For a more detailed description, see Note 5—"Transactions with Related Parties" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. If United Online were unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, however, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state, local, or foreign law may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the distribution because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution by United Online. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, the distribution may result in corporate-level taxable gain to United Online under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our stock or United Online's stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Separation. The process for determining whether an acquisition or issuance triggering these provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. Any acquisitions or issuances of our stock or United Online's stock within a two-year period after the distribution generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although our company or United Online, as applicable, may be able to rebut that presumption. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement that we entered into with United Online, we are generally responsible for any taxes imposed on United Online that arise from the failure of the distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Sharing Agreement or the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS ruling. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent, publicly-traded company. As an independent, publicly-traded company, we believe that our businesses will benefit from, among other things: (1) enhanced strategic and management focus; (2) the ability to independently establish strategic priorities, growth strategies, and financial objectives; (3) more efficient capital allocation and direct access to capital; (4) the ability to implement a tailored approach to recruiting and retaining employees, including the ability to design effective incentives for the management team and employees that are more closely tied to business performance; (5) improved investor understanding of our business strategy and operating results; and (6) the ability to allow investors to choose between investing in United Online and/or FTD. However, by separating from United Online, we may be more susceptible to securities market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been if we were still a subsidiary of United Online. In addition, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the timeframe in which we expect to do so, if at all. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation for any reason, our business may be adversely affected. We are an "emerging growth company" and cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to "emerging growth companies" will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an "emerging growth company," we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies. Among other things, we are not required to (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new rules that may be adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012, unless the SEC determines otherwise, (4) comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, (5) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies, or (6) hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Accordingly, the information that we provide stockholders in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, may be different than what is available with respect to other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile and adversely affected. As an "emerging growth company," we have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until such standards are also applicable to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with non-emerging growth companies effective dates for such new or revised standards. We will remain an "emerging growth company" until the earliest of (1) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (2) the date on which we are deemed to be a "large accelerated filer," as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act or any successor statute, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during 30 Table of Contents the preceding three-year period, or (4) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act. We may be unable to make, on a timely basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent, publicly-traded company. Prior to the Separation, our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of United Online. As a result of the Separation, we are directly subject to the reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act immediately after the distribution date. In addition, as a public entity, we will be subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports about our business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which requires significant resources and management oversight. As an "emerging growth company," we are excluded from Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which otherwise would have required our auditors to formally attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if, once we are no longer an "emerging growth company," our independent registered public accounting firm cannot provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our historical consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of future results. Our historical consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods prior to the Separation on November 1, 2013, or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: •Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by United Online as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. United Online historically performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information technology, and centrally-managed employee benefit arrangements. As such, prior to November 1, 2013, our historical consolidated financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from United Online for these and similar functions. These allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had we operated as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods prior to November 1, 2013; and •Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing, and business operations as a result of our operation as a company separate from United Online. For these reasons, our future cost structure may be higher than that implied by the historical consolidated financial information presented in this Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on acceptable terms. From time to time, we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that the sources of capital in place at the time of the Separation will permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many 31 Table of Contents factors, including, but not limited to: (1) our financial performance, (2) our credit ratings or the absence of a credit rating, (3) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and (4) the state of the economy. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on acceptable terms and conditions. We might have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with United Online. The agreements related to the Separation, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, and any other agreements, were negotiated in the context of our separation from United Online while we were still part of United Online. Although these agreements were intended to be on an arm's-length basis, they may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Conversely, certain agreements related to the Separation may include terms that are more favorable than those that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Following expiration of these agreements, we will have to enter into new agreements with unaffiliated third parties, and such agreements may include terms that are less favorable to us. The terms of the agreements negotiated in the context of our separation concerned, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications, and other obligations between United Online and us. A court could require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to United Online under the Separation and Distribution Agreement. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, from and after the Separation, we and United Online are responsible for the debts, liabilities, and other obligations related to the businesses which each company owns and operates following the consummation of the Separation. Although we do not expect to be liable for any obligations that are not allocated to us under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, a court could disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to United Online, particularly if United Online were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the allocated obligations. Potential indemnification liabilities to United Online pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement could materially and adversely affect our company. Among other things, the Separation and Distribution Agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Separation. If we are required to indemnify United Online under the circumstances set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with the Separation, United Online has indemnified us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that United Online's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, United Online will indemnify us for substantially all liabilities that exist relating to United Online's business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Separation. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that United Online agrees to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from United Online will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that United Online will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately 32 Table of Contents succeed in recovering from United Online any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The Company's common stock began trading "regular way" on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the stock ticker symbol "FTD" on November 1, 2013. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained in the future. The lack of an active trading market may make it more difficult for you to sell our shares and could lead to our share price being depressed or more volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade in the future. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: •a shift in our investor base; •our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •success or failure of our business strategy; •our ability to obtain financing as needed; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; •changes in laws and regulations affecting our business, including tax legislation; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; •changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet our earnings guidance; •the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; •investor perception of us and the floral retail industry; •overall market fluctuations; and •general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have also experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership in our company may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in our company may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect to grant to our directors, officers, and employees, and because of adjustments made to outstanding United Online equity awards in connection with the Separation. We have established equity incentive plans that will provide for the grant of common stock-based equity awards to our directors, officers, and employees. In addition, we may issue equity as all or part of the consideration paid for acquisitions and strategic investments we may make in the future. 33 Table of Contents We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. While we have no specific plan to issue preferred stock, our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, privileges, preferences, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, terms of redemption and relative participation, optional, or other rights, if any, of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as our Board of Directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL") could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control, and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the DGCL and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our Board of Directors or changes in the composition of our Board of Directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: •advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at annual meetings of stockholders; •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws; •the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered terms; •limitations on the removal of directors; •the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and •the authority of our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, "blank check" preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or harmful takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with adequate time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. We currently do not expect to pay any cash dividends and the price of our stock may not appreciate. We presently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to reinvest in the growth of our businesses, to make interest payments on or pay down our debt and to fund potential acquisitions. As a result, we do not currently expect to pay any cash dividends. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock that you received in the distribution must appreciate for you to recognize a gain on your investment upon sale. This appreciation may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents 