D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. In that event, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page i. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our results of operations and future prospects will be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain new registered users and premium subscriptions at a sufficient rate. The number of new registered users we attract and retain is a key factor in growing our premium subscription base, which in turn drives our revenues and collections. To date, we have grown the number of registered users and premium subscriptions through the provision of complimentary user-friendly, drag-and-drop web development, design and management software, which can be upgraded to a subscription-based package with various additional solutions and services. Over 60% of our new premium subscriptions in any given month are generated by users who registered in earlier months. We therefore attribute considerable importance to continued growth of our user base since they are our primary source of premium subscriptions. A number of factors could impact our ability to attract new and retain registered users and premium subscriptions, including: · the quality and design of our platform compared to other similar solutions and services; · our ability to develop new technologies or offer new products and service offerings; · the pricing of our solutions and services compared to our competitors; 7 · the reliability and availability of our customer service; · our ability to provide value-added third-party applications, solutions and services that integrate into our solutions; · perceptions of the security of our platform and the impact of cyber attacks on our registered users’ data; · unexpected increases in the cost of acquiring new registered users; and · our ability to expand into new geographic markets. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if our selling and marketing activities fail to generate traffic to our website, users and premium subscriptions at the levels that we anticipate or fail to generate such traffic on a cost-effective basis. We acquire many of our users through paid marketing channels, such as cost-per-click advertisements on search engines and social networking sites and targeted and generic banner advertisements on other sites. A portion of the users acquired through these channels purchase premium subscriptions over time. In order to maintain our current revenues and grow our business, we need to continuously optimize our marketing campaigns aimed at acquiring new registered users and premium subscriptions. In the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, advertising expenses were $21.5 million, $41.0 million and $74.0 million, respectively, representing 41%, 42% and 43% of our collections, respectively. We conduct search engine optimization and A/B testing, a marketing approach which aims to identify which changes to our website will increase or maximize user interest and user acquisition. We also rely upon the assumption that historical user behavior can be extrapolated to predict future user behavior, and we structure our marketing activities in the manner that we believe is most likely to encourage the user behaviors that lead to desired future outcomes, such as purchasing premium subscriptions. However, we may fail to accurately predict user acquisition, interest, or to fully understand or estimate the conditions and behaviors that drove historical user behavior and thus, fail to generate the return on marketing we expected. For example, events outside our control, such as announcements by our competitors or other third-parties of significant business developments, have in the past adversely affected the returns we had anticipated on our marketing expenses in the short-term. An unexpected increase in the marginal acquisition cost of new registered users may also have an adverse effect on our ability to grow the number of our registered users and premium subscriptions. In addition, we are investing a significant portion of our marketing expenses in more traditional advertising and promotion of our brand, including through radio and television commercials (including a nationally televised campaign in the U.S. during the Super Bowl XLIX) and sponsorships, the effectiveness of which is more difficult to track than online marketing. If any of our marketing campaigns prove less successful than anticipated in attracting users and premium subscriptions, we may not achieve our return-on-investment targets, and our rate of user and premium subscription acquisition may fail to meet market expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our share price. Our limited operating history in a new and developing market makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We were founded in 2006 and the majority of our revenue growth has occurred since 2011. This short history makes it difficult to assess effectively our future prospects or predict our future performance. We also operate in a new market the development of which is difficult to predict and that may not develop as expected. We believe that the growth in our user base and revenues may indicate that our business strategy is successful, but you should consider our future prospects in light of the challenges and uncertainties that we face, including the fact that our business has grown rapidly and it may not be possible to discern fully the trends that we are subject to, that we operate in a new and developing market, that elements of our business strategy are new and subject to ongoing development, and that new competitors may enter our market and existing competitors are also growing their business and their marketing budgets. 8 If the security of the confidential information or personal information of our users and the visitors to our users’ websites stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Due to the nature of our business, our system stores personally identifiable information, credit card information and other critical data for our users and the visitors of our users’ websites. We cannot be sure that the steps that we have taken to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store will succeed in preventing inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure. Like many online companies, we have experienced attempts by third parties to circumvent the security of our systems, although we are not aware of any successful attempts. For example, during 2014 and the first quarter of 2015 we experienced a number of attempts by hackers to penetrate our internal network and hosted servers using various techniques, including tailored phishing attacks, that we managed to block. In the future, we may not be successful in identifying, blocking or otherwise preventing access to our systems, despite our security measures. Since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If our security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our users’ data, our brand may be negatively impacted, our relationships with our users may be damaged, our users may choose to cancel their subscriptions, and we could incur liability and be subject to regulatory investigations and fines, negatively impacting our financial performance which may result in a decline of our stock price. In addition, many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data, and our agreements with certain partners require us to notify them in the event of a security incident. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach sometimes lead to negative publicity and may cause our users to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation, and we could lose users or fail to acquire new users. If our security measures fail to protect credit card or personally identifiable information adequately, we could be liable to both our users for their losses, as well as to the vendors under our agreements with them such that we could be subject to fines and higher transaction fees, we could face regulatory action, and our users and vendors could end their relationships with us, any of which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot assure you that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception and, as of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $145.1 million. We expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase in the near term primarily from increased selling and marketing expenses related to user acquisition activities and increased research and development expenses related to enhancing the functionality of our solutions and introducing new solutions. We seek to leverage these expenses across a growing base of premium subscriptions while maintaining or increasing the amount of revenues per premium subscription in order to achieve profitability. Nevertheless, if we are unable to grow our premium subscriptions at the required rate or to maintain or increase revenues per premium subscription, or if we incur unexpected expenses, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitable operations. A decrease in annual subscriptions or renewal rates of our existing premium subscriptions could adversely impact our collections and revenues, result in delayed or lower than forecasted profitability, and harm our ability to forecast our business. The rate at which annual premium subscriptions are purchased and the rate at which premium subscriptions are renewed significantly impact the overall number of premium subscriptions and, as a result, our collections and our revenues. Our annual subscription renewal rates have historically increased based on the length of time a subscription has been active. One of the key drivers of renewal rates is whether premium subscriptions are annual or monthly. Annual subscriptions have higher renewal rates than monthly subscriptions since there is one-twelfth as many opportunities in a given annual period to fail to renew a subscription than a monthly subscription whether deliberately or through failure to update payment information upon expiration. As such, our overall renewal rates may drop if there is a decrease in the number of premium annual subscriptions compared to premium monthly subscriptions and will affect our ability to forecast our future results of operations. If the number of annual premium subscriptions or renewal rates fail to meet our expectations, our profitability and future prospects may be adversely impacted. In addition, premium subscriptions currently renew automatically at the end of each subscription period unless they cancel their subscription in advance. Any limitation or restriction imposed on this ability to bill our users on a recurring basis, whether due to new regulations or otherwise, may significantly lower the renewal rate of our subscriptions. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, or if events occur that damage our reputation and brand, our ability to expand our base of users and premium subscriptions may be impaired, and our business and financial results may be harmed. Maintaining, promoting and enhancing the Wix brand is critical to expanding our base of users and premium subscriptions. For both users and premium subscriptions, we market our solutions and services primarily through cost-per-click advertisements on search engines and social networking sites, participation in social networking sites, free and paid banner advertisements on other websites, and small Wix advertisements on our users’ websites that do not currently have a premium subscription, and through more traditional advertising, including radio and television commercials. Our ability to attract additional users depends in part on increasing our brand recognition. In addition, our solutions and services are also marketed through free traffic sources, including customer referrals, word-of-mouth and direct searches for our “Wix” name, or web presence solutions, in search engines. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality, well-designed, useful, reliable, secure, and innovative solutions and services, which we may not do successfully. We may introduce new solutions or terms of service that users do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. Additionally, if users have a negative experience using third-party applications and websites integrated with Wix, such an experience may affect our brand. Our Wix Arena Marketplace enables independent web designers to offer their services to users who engage them directly. We do not conduct any evaluation of these designers’ credentials. Our App Market enables third party developers to offer their applications to our registered users and premium subscribers. We conduct a limited evaluation of the developers of third party applications in our App Market which is focused mainly on the technical functionality of applications. There is no assurance that the applications in our App Market meet security or privacy industry standards. Our reputation may be harmed if any of the services provided by these independent designers and developers do not meet users’ quality or security expectations. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. Additionally, errors, defects, disruptions, security vulnerabilities or other performance problems with our products and platform, including the products and solutions we license from third parties, may reduce our revenue, harm our reputation and brand and adversely affect our ability to attract new users and premium subscriptions, especially if these errors occur when we introduce new services or features. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain the Wix brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, we could be subject to claims regarding our business and financial results may be adversely affected. 10 We are subject to privacy and data protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy and data protection obligations, and our failure to comply with these or any future laws, regulations, or obligations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business. We hold certain personal data of our users, primarily, username and email address, geo-location, usage data and additional information, and may hold certain personal data of the visitors to our users’ websites. Since the first quarter of 2013, we also collect billing information, such as credit card numbers, full names, billing address and phone numbers. With respect to the credit card data, we have implemented data security standards, operating rules and certification requirements in accordance with PCI Data Security Standards and we have maintained PCI compliance level 1 certification since February 2013. We recently launched WixHive. The WixHive API captures a variety of actions or activities taken by a user's website visitors such as contact information, messages, purchases, bookings and more. Activity data for each site is stored and managed in a centralized database dedicated to that site, and can be accessed by installed apps and the site's owner through a dashboard. We are subject to the privacy and data protection laws and regulations adopted by Israel and potentially, other jurisdictions. For example, although we do not have an operating entity in the Netherlands, the control that we exert over our servers in the Netherlands may result in our activities in Europe being deemed to be subject to Dutch law. Where the local data protection and privacy laws of a jurisdiction apply, we may be required to register our operations in that jurisdiction or make changes to our business so that user data is only collected and processed in accordance with applicable local law. Privacy laws restrict our storage, use, processing, disclosure, transfer and protection of personal information, including credit card data, provided to us by our users, and possibly the visitors to our users’ websites. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, policies and legal obligations, as well as with certain industry standards (including voluntary third-party certification bodies such as TRUSTe) relating to privacy and data protection. We are also subject to the privacy and data security-related obligations set forth in our terms of use with our users, and we may be liable to third parties in the event we are deemed to have wrongfully processed personal data. The regulatory framework for privacy and data security issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. In particular, the European Union has traditionally taken a broader view as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under their privacy and data protection laws. For example, the European Union issued a proposal for a new General Data Protection Regulation at the beginning of 2012 which will replace the European Data Protection Directive and is likely to include more stringent obligations for online businesses, While we cannot predict if or when the proposed regulation will take effect, if implemented, the more stringent requirements on privacy user notifications and data handling will require us to adapt our business and are likely to incur additional cost should we become subject to these and other laws and regulations, which could force us to incur material costs or require us to adapt our business. 11 In addition, the Russian parliament recently adopted a set of amendments to the Russian Federal Law on Personal Data, stating that personal data pertaining to Russian citizens must be processed with the use of databases located in Russia, when collecting such data. It is still not clear whether it will be legal to integrate databases located in Russia with databases and software located on foreign servers, or to copy data from such Russian databases to non-Russian servers. The effective date of these legislative changes is currently set for September 1, 2015, and as we continue to monitor their implementation, we expect additional clarifications to be made by the Russian data protection authority (Roscomnadzor). A failure by us or a third-party contractor providing services to us to comply with applicable privacy and data security laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements or industry guidelines, or our terms of use with our users, may result in sanctions, statutory or contractual damages or litigation. These proceedings or violations could force us to spend money in defense or settlement of these proceedings, result in the imposition of monetary liability, restrict or block access to our services from a certain territory, incur additional management resource, increase our costs of doing business, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our solutions. Our results of operations and business could be harmed if we fail to manage the growth of our infrastructure effectively or seek to expand our infrastructure into additional geographic locations. We have experienced rapid growth in our business and operations, which places substantial demands on our operational infrastructure. The scalability and flexibility of our cloud-based infrastructure depends on the functionality of our third-party servers and their ability to handle increased traffic and demand for bandwidth. The significant growth in the number of users and transactions has increased the amount of both our stored marketing and research data and the data of our users. In the future, we may be required to allocate resources, including spending substantial amounts to build, purchase and lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure in order to handle increased customer traffic or in order to comply with data protection regulations in jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Any loss of such data due to disruptions in our infrastructure could result in harm to our brand or reputation. Moreover, as our user base grows, and as users rely on our platform for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our infrastructure and continuing to enhance its scalability in order to maintain the performance of our platform and solutions. Our need to effectively manage our operations and growth will also require that we continue to assess and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may encounter difficulties obtaining the necessary personnel or expertise to improve those controls, systems and procedures on a timely basis relative to our growth. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could materially harm our results of operations and business. Failures of the third-party hardware, software and infrastructure on which we rely, including third-party data center hosting facilities, and failure to protect against cyber attacks, could adversely affect our business. We rely on leased servers, cloud service providers and other third-party hardware and infrastructure to support our operations. Our primary data centers are located in two geographically separate locations in the United States with a back-up data center in Europe. We lease our primary data centers in the United States from Hostway Services, Inc. pursuant to an agreement which may be terminated by either party at any time with 180 days advance notice. We currently sublease cloud storage from Amazon.com, Inc. and Google Inc. If Hostway ceases to make its data centers available to us without sufficient advance notice or if we are unable to utilize cloud services from Amazon and Google, we would likely experience delays in delivering our solutions until migration to an alternate data center provider is completed. The owners and operators of these data centers and cloud services do not guarantee that our users’ access to our platform will be uninterrupted or error-free. We do not control the operation of these facilities and such facilities could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. 12 We and our hosting providers have in the past been subject to cyber-attacks, which have caused interruptions in our service. For example, since the beginning of 2014, we have been and continue to be the target of malicious denial-of-service, or DDoS, attacks, a technique used by hackers to take an internet service offline by overloading its servers. The scale of a number of such attacks caused us and some of our user websites to experience significant but intermittent downtime. Further, our servers and data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures or similar catastrophic events. Moreover, if for any reason our arrangement with one or more of the providers of the servers that we use is terminated, we could incur additional expenses in arranging for new facilities and support. Disruptions to these servers could interrupt our ability to provide our platform and solutions and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our revenues may not increase if we are unable to maintain market share for mobile sites and applications, or if our mobile products fail to achieve widespread acceptance, which may affect our business and future prospects. Consumers are increasingly accessing the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones and tablets. This trend has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase. Acknowledging this trend, we launched our first free mobile offering in 2011, offering our users the ability to quickly and easily deploy an HTML5 mobile-optimized website and followed with a further enhanced mobile product in October 2013. The mobile device market is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and solutions, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continuous improvement in performance characteristics and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements. We may incur additional costs in order to adapt our current functionalities to other operating systems and we may face technical challenges adapting our products to different versions of already supported operating systems, such as Android variants offered by different mobile phone manufacturers. If we are unable to offer continual improvements to our mobile solutions or adapt their functionalities to new and different operating systems, our mobile solutions may fail to achieve widespread acceptance by our users. Additionally, the providers of certain platforms, such as Apple, may limit or restrict access entirely to their platforms. Therefore, our revenues may not increase even if we continue to penetrate the mobile device market. Furthermore, we are dependent on the interoperability of our products with third-party mobile devices and mobile operating systems, as well as web browsers that we do not control. Any changes in such devices, systems or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our products or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect usage of our products. We rely on search engines and social networking sites to attract a meaningful portion of our users, and if those search engines or social networking sites change their listings or policies regarding advertising, or increase their pricing or suffer problems, it may limit our ability to attract new users. We rely on search engines and social networking sites to attract new users, and many of our users locate our website and solutions by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!, and advertisements on social networking sites such as Facebook. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, natural (i.e., non-paid) and purchased listings. Natural search results are determined and organized solely by automated criteria set by the search engine and a ranking level cannot be purchased. Advertisers can also pay search engines to place listings more prominently in search results and websites in order to attract users to advertisers’ websites. To some extent, we rely on natural searches in order to attract free traffic to our website. We seek to increase the likelihood that our website is displayed prominently when a potential user searches for a way to build a website. Nevertheless, we cannot be sure that our efforts to optimize search engine results will succeed. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, our websites may appear less prominently or not at all in search results, which could result in fewer users clicking through to our website. Furthermore, competitors may in the future bid on our name from search services in an attempt to capture potential traffic. Preventing such actions and recapturing potential traffic could increase our expenses. Further, search engines or social networking sites may change their policies from time to time regarding pay-per-click or other means of advertising. If any change to these policies delays or prevents us from advertising these through channels, this could result in fewer users clicking through to our website. 13 We may face challenges expanding our premium subscription base and increasing revenues in emerging markets due to difficulties in these markets associated with payment collections as well as legal, economic, tax and political risks that are greater than more developed markets. Expanding our business into emerging markets is an important component of our growth strategy and presents challenges that are different than those associated with more developed international markets. In particular, regulations limiting the use of local credit cards could constrain our growth in certain countries. For example, regulations in certain countries do not permit recurring charges on credit cards. In the last quarter of 2011, we established a Brazilian subsidiary to process local credit cards in Brazil in compliance with Brazilian currency controls. In 2014, we established a subsidiary in Mexico to facilitate local payments in compliance with Mexican regulations. We may continue to establish subsidiaries in order, among others, to comply with regulations in the respective jurisdictions in which we provide our services. It is often difficult to establish an effective local business model, and we may need to enter into agreements with third-parties to process credit cards on our behalf or modify our business plans or operations in order to establish a local presence in emerging countries, which may delay our entry into these markets or increase our costs. Additionally, in emerging markets we face the risk of more rapidly changing government policies and encountering sudden currency devaluations. Currency controls in emerging countries may make it hard for us to repatriate collections or profits that we generated in a particular country. It is possible that governments of one or more countries may censor or block access to the Internet or specifically our website due to political concerns or in response to certain incidents or significant events, thereby preventing people in these countries, including our users, from accessing our products. The growth of our business may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to expand our user base in emerging markets. We face potential liability and expense for legal claims based on the content on our platform. Our platform allows users to create and manage websites. At present, we do not require that our users post on their websites, or require their visitors to agree to, any terms of service, privacy policy, disclaimer or any other contractual documentation or policy. If our users do not post or require agreement to the appropriate documentation and policies on their websites, or should our users fail to take steps necessary to enjoy the benefits of certain statutory safe harbors, such as those set forth in Section 512 of the United States Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communication Decency Act, then they may expose themselves to civil and criminal liability under applicable law, for example, where the visitors post information which is libelous, defamatory, in breach of regulation concerning unacceptable content or publications, or in breach of any third-party intellectual property rights or where our users or their suppliers fail to process personal data in accordance with applicable law. It is possible that we could also be subject to liability. Certain jurisdictions, including the United States and countries in Europe, have adopted laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties, including with respect to defamation, invasion of privacy and other torts, copyright and trademark infringement, and other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched, the ads posted, or the content provided by users. Any court ruling or other governmental action that imposes liability on providers of online services for the activities of their users and other third parties could harm our business. In such circumstances we may also be subject to liability under applicable law in a way which may not be fully mitigated by the user terms of service we require our users to agree to. Any liability attributed to us could adversely affect our brand, reputation, our ability to expand our user base and our financial position. Further, our indemnity from the users may also not be fully effective as a matter of practice if any user does not have sufficient assets, insurance or other means to back that indemnity. In addition, rising concern about the use of the Internet for illegal conduct, such as the unauthorized dissemination of national security information, money laundering or supporting terrorist activities may in the future produce legislation or other governmental action that could require changes to our products, solutions or services, restrict or impose additional costs upon the conduct of our business or cause users to abandon material aspects of our service. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and business. 14 Activities of users or the content of their websites could damage our reputation and brand, or harm our ability to expand our base of users and premium subscriptions, and our business and financial results. Our reputation and brand may be negatively affected by the actions of users that are deemed to be hostile, offensive or inappropriate to other users or to the public, or by users acting under false or inauthentic identities or by users that are using our product to conduct illegal activities. This particularly applies to our users who do not have premium subscriptions and who therefore maintain the “Wix” logo on their websites. We do not monitor or review the appropriateness of the domain names our users register or the content of our users’ websites, and we do not have control over the activities in which our users engage. While we have adopted policies regarding illegal or offensive use of our services by our users and retain authority to terminate domain name registrations and to take down websites that violate these policies, users could nonetheless engage in these activities. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brand, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate use was high profile, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our user base, and our business and financial results. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and debit card payment processing. We accept payments primarily through credit and debit card transactions and provide a portal for users to submit credit or debit card information for processing. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit and debit card payments, including: · we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and could require us to either increase the prices we charge for our products or experience an increase in our operating expenses; · if our billing systems fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our premium subscriptions’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, we could lose revenues; and · if we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, our credit card fees for chargeback transactions, or our fees for other credit and debit card transactions or issuers, may increase, or issuers may terminate their relationship with us. Our billing system interfaces with a number of different gateway providers that link to a number of different payment card processors based on the jurisdiction and other factors. In connection with this system, we have implemented data security standards, operating rules and certification requirements in accordance with Payment Card Industry, or PCI, Data Security Standards in connection with internal control requirements under Israeli law and we have maintained PCI compliance level 1 certification since February 2013. There can be no assurance that our billing system data security standards, or those of our third-party service providers, will adequately comply with the billing standards of any future jurisdiction in which we seek to market our service offering. 15 If we do not or cannot maintain the compatibility of our platform and solutions with third-party applications change or if the third-party applications that we offer fail to keep pace with competitors’ offerings, demand for our solutions and platform could decline. The attractiveness of our platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate third-party applications which our users desire into their websites or develop those services directly. Third-party application providers may change the features of their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications and platforms in an adverse manner. Further, third-party application providers may refuse to partner with us, or limit or restrict our access to their applications and platforms. Such changes could functionally limit or terminate our ability to use these third-party applications and platforms with our platform, which could negatively impact our offerings and harm our business. Additionally, competitors may offer functionality our users desire and our competitors may offer better functionality than the third party applications integrated in our platform. If we fail to integrate our platform with new third-party applications that our users need for their websites or develop them directly, or adapt to the data transfer requirements of such third-party applications and platforms, we may not be able to offer the functionality that our users expect, which would negatively impact our offerings and, as a result, harm our business. Our business and prospects would be harmed if changes to technologies used in our solutions or new versions or upgrades of operating systems and Internet browsers adversely impact the process by which users interface with our platform. The user interface for our platform is currently simple and straightforward, which we believe has helped us to expand our user base even among users with little technical expertise. In the future, operating system providers, such as Microsoft or Apple, or any other provider of Internet browsers, could introduce new features that would make it difficult to use our platform. In addition, Internet browsers for desktop or mobile devices could introduce new features, or change existing browser specifications such that they would be incompatible with our products and solutions, or prevent end users from accessing our users’ sites. For example, operating systems or major Internet browsers such as Firefox, Internet Explorer, Chrome or Safari, could become unstable or be incompatible with HTML5-based products and solutions. Any changes to technologies used in our solutions, including within operating systems or Internet browsers that make it difficult for users to access our platform or end-users to access our users’ sites, may slow the growth of our user base, and materially adversely impact our business and prospects. Our ability to enhance our products may be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain sufficient research and development personnel. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop new solutions, applications and enhancements to our existing platform. Our principal research and development activities are conducted from our headquarters in Tel Aviv, Israel, and we face significant competition for suitably skilled developers in this region. We also engage a team of developers in Ukraine through a third-party service organization and directly with local subcontractors, and we have engaged a team of local developers in Lithuania in order to benefit from the significant pool of talent that is more readily available in each of those markets. Many larger companies expend considerably greater amounts on employee recruitment and may be able to offer more favorable compensation and incentive packages than us. If we cannot attract or retain sufficient skilled research and development or marketing employees, our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 16 Our future prospects may be adversely affected if we are unable to generate revenues from sources other than our premium subscription packages. In addition to our editor, we provide all of our users with access to additional products and services that enhance their digital presence. For example, in the last quarter of 2012 we launched the Wix App Market, which is integrated into our platform. Through the App Market, we offer our users a range of software applications that can be integrated as add-ons to their free or premium websites. The App Market offers both applications that are developed by us and by third-party developers. We cannot offer any assurances that sales of applications or other value-added solutions and services we may offer in the future will be a significant part of our revenues. In addition, our selling efforts for these items may negatively impact our users’ perception of us due to our email marketing to generate sales. If we do not succeed in selling these items, our future prospects may be adversely affected. We may face increased competition in a highly competitive market. While there are other providers who offer features similar to those features found in our solutions, we believe that we do not compete with traditional web development firms as we focus on not only web development but also technology, design and business work flow processes. Nevertheless, we do compete with aspects of the services provided by web-based website design platforms and software programs, as well as some of the service offerings of a number of template-based web builder companies and designers, as well as those who offer domain registration services, particularly using a freemium business model similar to ours or premium only business model. In the future, we may experience increased competition from web design companies if they broaden their product and service offerings, or lower their pricing. In addition, it is possible that other providers may in the future decide that offering a platform similar to our platform represents an attractive business opportunity. In particular, if a more established company were to target our market, we may face significant competition from a company that enjoys potential competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, larger existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. These companies may use these advantages to offer solutions and service similar to ours at a lower price, develop different solutions to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. Increased competition could result in us failing to attract users or obtain premium subscriptions at the same rate. It could also cause us to have higher acquisition costs or force us to lower our prices or take other steps that may materially adversely impact our results of operations. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services and keep up with rapid changes in design and technology, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to improve the look, function, performance and reliability of our solutions and services, including integrating Apps developed by third parties. The development of new and upgraded solutions and new service offerings involves a significant amount of time for our research and development team, as it can take our developers months to update, code and test new and upgraded solutions and integrate them into our platform. Further, our design team spends a significant amount of time and resources in order to incorporate various design elements, such as customized colors, fonts, content and other features into our new and upgraded solutions. The introduction of these new and upgraded design features, solutions and services also involves a significant amount of marketing spending. We must also manage our existing offerings, as we continually test, support, and market these solutions and applications. Our revenues and competitive position could be materially adversely affected if we fail to improve our design features or technology, or if our solutions fail to achieve widespread acceptance. 17 Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that an important contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, teamwork, passion for our users, and a focus on attractive designs and technologically advanced products. Other than our executive officers, as a result of our growth, most of our employees have been with us for fewer than two years. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a growing number of new employees, including employees in international markets. As a result, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could limit our ability to innovate and operate effectively. Any failure to preserve our culture could also negatively affect our ability to retain current and recruit new personnel, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of customer service, our brand, business and financial results may be harmed. We believe our focus on customer support is critical to retaining, expanding and further penetrating our user base. As a result, we have invested in the quality and training of our customer support and call center personnel. If we are unable to maintain a consistently high level of customer service, we may lose existing users and find it more difficult to attract new users. In addition, regardless of the performance of our customer support and call center, users of online services base their purchasing decisions on a number of factors, including price, design, integration abilities, functionality of services, reputation and ease of use. If we fail to maintain adequate customer support which improves the functionality of our solutions and their ease of use, our reputation, financial results and business prospects may be materially harmed. Our business relies on the experience and expertise of our senior management and other key personnel. The success of our business is dependent to a large degree on the continued service of our executive officers. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could suffer. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. We have entered into employment and services agreements with our executive officers and key employees that contain non-compete covenants. Despite these agreements, we may not be able to retain these officers and employees. If we cannot enforce the non-compete covenants, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or prevent our employees from establishing their own competing ventures, either of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we have grown significantly in recent years and it may be harder to retain employees that seek to work at a smaller organization. Finally, given our increased profile as a public company, our employees are more likely to be the targets of attempts by competitors and others to hire them away from us. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations and cash flows are affected by fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2014, approximately 70% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately 30% in other currencies, primarily in Euros, British Pounds and the Brazilian Real. Conversely, in 2014, approximately 61% of our cost of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars, approximately 38% in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead costs. Since a significant portion of our expenses are denominated in NIS, any appreciation of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our net loss or net income (if any). We estimate that a 10% increase (decrease) in the value of the NIS against the U.S. dollar would have decreased (increased) our net loss by approximately $7 million in 2014. These estimates of the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on our historic results of operations may be different from the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our future results of operations since the mix of currencies comprising our revenues and expenses may change. We evaluate periodically the various currencies to which we are exposed and take selective hedging measures to reduce the potential adverse impact from the appreciation or the depreciation of our non U.S. dollar-denominated operations, as appropriate and as reasonably available to us. We cannot provide any assurances that our hedging activities will be successful in protecting us from adverse impacts from currency exchange rate fluctuations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 18 Because we recognize revenues from premium subscriptions over the term of an agreement, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. We recognize revenues over the term of our contracts. During 2014, approximately 75% of our premium subscriptions were annual subscriptions and approximately 25% were monthly subscriptions. As a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from premium subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a shortfall in demand for our solutions and services or a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one quarter may not significantly reduce our revenues for that quarter but could negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our solutions and service offerings are not reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. Our business will suffer if the small business market for our solutions proves less lucrative than projected or if we fail to effectively acquire and service small business users. A majority of our premium subscriptions are from small businesses. Small businesses frequently have limited budgets and may choose to allocate resources to items other than our solutions, especially in times of economic uncertainty or recessions. We believe that the small business market is underserved, and we intend to continue to devote substantial resources to it. We aim to grow our revenues by adding new small business customers, selling additional services to existing small business customers and encouraging existing small business customers to renew their subscriptions to our premium solutions. If the small business market fails to be as lucrative as we project or we are unable to market and sell our services to small businesses effectively, our ability to grow our revenues quickly and become profitable will be harmed. We are subject to trade and economic sanctions and export laws that may govern or restrict our business and we, and our directors and officers, may be subject to fines or other penalties for non-compliance with those laws. U.S. Laws and Regulations We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that may govern or restrict our business and activities in certain countries and with certain persons, including the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, and the export administration regulations administered by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS. In the course of an internal review in early 2013, we determined that we had 16 premium subscriptions, out of a total of approximately 583,000 premium subscriptions, with geographic internet protocols, or GEOIP, addresses in Cuba, Iran, North Korea, North Sudan or Syria (“U.S. Sanctioned Countries”) or that had otherwise provided personal information indicating that they may be located in U.S. Sanctioned Countries. As part of a subsequent internal review, we also determined that we had 32,600 users, or less than 0.1% of our total user base of approximately 33 million as measured as of April 30, 2013, with GEOIP addresses in U.S. Sanctioned Countries. 19 In May 2013, we made a voluntary self-disclosure to OFAC and BIS. We cannot predict if and when OFAC and BIS will complete their respective reviews and determinations as to whether any violation of relevant U.S. sanctions or export laws occurred or is ongoing. In case of an apparent violation, OFAC and/or BIS could decide not to impose penalties but issue only a warning or cautionary letter. However, if OFAC or BIS determines that we have violated applicable regulations, we may face civil and/or criminal penalties and may also suffer reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have undertaken a number of remedial measures, including terminating the users and the premium subscriptions that may have been from a U.S. Sanctioned Country, and blocking the ability of existing and new users—with or without a premium subscription—that have a GEOIP address in a U.S. Sanctioned Country to access our cloud-based software or services. We have also since instituted new daily screening practices and updated our systems to prevent users from U.S. Sanctioned Countries entering billing information with an address in that location. Israeli Laws and Regulations The Israeli Trading with the Enemy Ordinance—1939 (the “Ordinance”) prohibits any Israeli person from trading goods with enemy countries or with the residents of enemy countries. The Israeli Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for implementing the Ordinance, has currently determined enemy countries to be Iran, Lebanon and Syria (“Israeli Sanctioned Countries”). The Ordinance was enacted in 1939 and does not expressly address online services. We therefore cannot state with certainty how the provisions of the Ordinance apply to the type of services that we provide. We voluntarily approached the Israeli Ministry of Finance in September 2013 and asked for its formal position regarding the applicability of the Ordinance to the type of services that we provide. We do not know the extent to which the Ministry of Finance will want to have further discussions with us, the timing of those discussions or the ultimate outcome of their deliberations. Although the Ordinance allows Israeli persons to apply for a permit to trade with Israeli Sanctioned Countries or their residents, we are not aware of a permit being granted or denied in the past to a person providing the type of services that we provide. Lebanon is the only Israeli Sanctioned Country that is not also a U.S. Sanctioned Country. We have ceased providing services to users with a GEOIP address in a U.S. Sanctioned Country. The number of users and premium subscribers that we have in Lebanon is not material to our business. However, if we stop providing services in Lebanon, it may decrease the number of our current and future subscribers from other countries, particularly in the Middle East, who may cease using our services in protest to us blocking accounts in Israeli Sanctioned Countries. In addition, if it is determined by a competent court that sanctions under the Ordinance cover the type of services that we provide, we, our officers and employees may be subject to criminal and/or civil actions. We believe that our initiation of voluntary discussions with the Israeli Ministry of Finance may reduce such exposure, but any liability to which we are subject to could adversely affect our personnel, brand and reputation. 20 Our business could be affected by new governmental regulations regarding the Internet. To date, government regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in most parts of the world. The legal and regulatory environment pertaining to the Internet, however, is uncertain and may change. New laws may be passed, courts may issue decisions affecting the Internet, existing but previously inapplicable or unenforced laws may be deemed to apply to the Internet or regulatory agencies may begin to rigorously enforce such formerly unenforced laws, or existing legal safe harbors may be narrowed, both by U.S. federal or state governments and by governments of foreign jurisdictions. These changes could affect: · the liability of online service providers for actions by customers, including fraud, illegal content, spam, phishing, libel and defamation, infringement of third-party intellectual property and other abusive conduct; · other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials; · user privacy and security issues; · consumer protection; · characteristics and quality of services; and · cross-border e-commerce. The adoption of any new laws or regulations, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations to the Internet, could hinder growth in use of the Internet and online services generally, and decrease acceptance of the Internet and online services as a means of communications, e-commerce and advertising. In addition, such changes in laws could increase our costs of doing business, subject our business to increased liability or prevent us from delivering our services over the Internet, or in specific jurisdictions thereby materially harming our business and results of operations. The future growth of our business depends in significant part on increasing our international user base. As our level penetration in certain of our traditional markets increases, we are looking to expand our presence in new markets, including in emerging countries. As a result, we are in the process of localizing our products in numerous markets, languages and currencies, expanding our systems to accept payments in forms that are common in various target markets and tailoring our customer support. We intend to continue our international expansion efforts. To achieve our goals, we must continue to hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our international expansion. Our international expansion efforts may be slow or unsuccessful to the extent that we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets we target. In addition, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. We may also face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which could adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. These and other factors associated with our international operations could impair our growth prospects and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on our customers’ continued and unimpeded access to the Internet and the development and maintenance of Internet infrastructure. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers Our services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products and increase our operating costs. For example, the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, recently proposed new rules that would allow Internet service providers to charge content providers higher rates in order to deliver their content over certain “fast traffic” lanes. To the extent the FCC’s proposed rules are ultimately implemented, Internet service providers could attempt to use this ruling to impose higher fees and our business could be adversely impacted. Internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede both our and our customers’ domestic and international growth, increase our costs or adversely affect our business.” 21 Due to the global nature of our business, we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery laws. The global nature of our business creates various domestic and local regulatory challenges. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials and other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We operate in areas of the world that experience corruption by government officials to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We operate in several countries and sell our products to customers around the world, which geographically stretches our compliance obligations. In addition, changes in laws could result in increased regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA or the U.K. Bribery Act. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, and if we fail to adhere to their rules and regulations, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks, which could subject us to damages and liability and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting credit card payments. The payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who process and accept credit cards for payment of goods and services. We are obligated to comply with these rules and regulations as part of the contracts we enter into with payment processors and merchant banks. The rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, or PCI DSS. Under the PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of payment card data to help prevent fraud. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, including the PCI DSS, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks. Such failure to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages, higher transaction fees, and civil liability, and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting debit and credit cards or could lead to a loss of payment processor partners. We also cannot guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payments systems or the theft, loss or misuse of the debit or credit card data of users or participants or regulatory or criminal investigations. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and any increases in our credit card and debit card fees could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, any such illegal or improper payments could harm our reputation and may result in a loss of service for our users, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 We may be unable to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information or prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our technology. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of confidentiality clauses, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property and know-how. In addition, we have filed a number of applications for patents to protect our technologies. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create solutions and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our solutions may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to our proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions. Additionally, we may from time to time be subject to opposition or similar proceedings with respect to applications for registrations of our intellectual property, including but not limited to our trademarks and patent applications. While we aim to acquire adequate protection of our brand through trademark registrations in key markets, occasionally third parties may have already registered or otherwise acquired rights to identical or similar marks for solutions that also address the software market. Additionally, the process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive. Any of our pending or future patent or trademark applications, whether or not challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. We are unable to guarantee that additional patents or trademarks will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents or trademarks issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We rely on our brand and trademarks to identify our solutions to our users and to differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, third parties may use our brand names or trademarks similar to ours in a manner that may cause confusion to our users or confusion in the market, or dilute our brand names or trademarks, which could decrease the value of our brand. From time to time, we may discover that third parties are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. However, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and misappropriation of our technology is difficult and we may therefore not always be aware of such unauthorized use or misappropriation. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop solutions with the same or similar functionality as our solutions. If competitors infringe, misappropriate or otherwise misuse our intellectual property rights and we are not adequately protected, or if such competitors are able to develop solutions with the same or similar functionality as ours without infringing our intellectual property, our competitive position and results of operations could be harmed and our legal costs could increase. 23 We have in the past been subject to claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement and may in the future become subject to similar or other claims that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert that our solutions, services and intellectual property infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property or other proprietary rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties. Additionally, in recent years, non-practicing entities, or NPEs, have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. We entered into settlement agreements in the past with two NPEs with respect to patent infringement claims. Any such claims, regardless of merit, that result in litigation, could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays in introducing new solutions or services, materially disrupt the conduct of our business and have a material and adverse effect on our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling or marketing some or all of our solutions or services or re-brand our solutions or services. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe, potentially even if we believe such claims to be without merit. If required licenses cannot be obtained, or if existing licenses are not renewed, litigation could result. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses for alternative technologies from third parties and otherwise negatively affect our business. Our platform contains open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and solutions. We use open source software in connection with our software development. From time to time, companies that use open source software have faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms, and we may be subject to such claims in the future. Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code of the user. While we monitor the use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, it is our view that we do not distribute our software, since no installation of our software is necessary and editing and design platform is accessible solely through the “cloud.” Nevertheless, this position could be challenged. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. The number of our registered users may be higher than the number of actual users, and we have no means of assessing the level of engagement of a particular user following registration. We use the definition “user” to mean the number of unique email addresses registered on Wix.com. The number of users as we define it may be higher than the actual number of users because some users have multiple registrations and others may have registered under different or fictitious names. In addition, we have no means of assessing the level of engagement of a particular user following registration. The length of time that users take following registration to design and publish a website varies significantly from hours to years. Some users may never publish a website, but have not cancelled their registration. Even if it were measurable, we do not consider the level of engagement of our registered users to be material to our business. Rather, we consider the rate at which users from a particular period generate premium subscriptions to be material to our business. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2014, 36% of our premium subscriptions were purchased by users that registered with us in the same quarter and the remaining 64% were from users who registered in earlier quarters. Nevertheless, if the number of our registered users is materially inconsistent with the number of our actual users, our user base, which we believe is important to the growth of our premium subscriptions, may be overstated. If that is the case, our business may not grow as fast as we expect, and our financial results and business prospects may be harmed. 24 We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our contractors or employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business. We enter into assignment of invention agreements with our employees pursuant to which such individuals agree to assign to us all rights to any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement with us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee or a person deemed to be an employee during the scope of their employment with a company are regarded as “service inventions,” which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee, the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, shall determine whether the employee or contractor is entitled to remuneration for their inventions. Recent decisions by the Committee have created uncertainty in this area, as it held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration or the criteria or circumstances under which an employee’s assignment of all rights and/or waiver of his or her right to remuneration will be disregarded. Although our contractors or employees have agreed to assign to us service invention rights, we may face claims challenging such agreements and demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our contractors or employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could otherwise negatively affect our business. U.S. states may seek to impose state and local business taxes and sales/use taxes and current value added taxes on Internet sales in Europe and elsewhere may increase. There is a risk that U.S. states could assert that we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries are liable for U.S. state and local business activity taxes based upon income or gross receipts or for the collection of U.S. local sales/use taxes. This risk exists regardless of whether we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax. States are becoming increasingly aggressive in asserting a nexus for business activity tax purposes and imposing sales/use taxes on products and services provided over the Internet. We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries could be subject to U.S. state and local taxation if a state tax authority asserts that our activities or the activities of our non-U.S. subsidiaries give rise to a nexus. We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries could also be liable for the collection of U.S. state and local sales/use taxes if a state tax authority asserts that distribution of our products over the Internet is subject to sales/use taxes. Additionally, pending legislation in the U.S. Congress, if enacted, could grant states additional authority to collect sales/use taxes on the sale of our premium subscriptions over the Internet Further, if a state tax authority asserts that distribution of our products or services is subject to such sales/use taxes, our premium subscribers could also be subjected to sales/use taxes, which may decrease the likelihood that such users would purchase or continue to renew their premium subscriptions. Additionally, sales of our solutions subject to value-added tax, or VAT, at the applicable rate in each jurisdiction, may increase and cause either our prices to increase or our collections and revenues to decline. New obligations to collect or pay taxes of any kind could substantially increase our cost of doing business. 25 We may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed or on acceptable terms. From time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund our growth, develop new solutions and services or make acquisitions or other investments. Our business plans may change, general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets may change, or other circumstances may arise, that have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and the anticipated cash needs of our business. Any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such capital requirements at this time. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our results of operations may suffer. We may make acquisitions and investments, which could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. From time to time, we evaluate potential strategic acquisition or investment opportunities. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Acquisitions and investments carry with them a number of risks, including the following: · diversion of management time and focus from operating our business; · implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies of the acquired company; · coordination of product, engineering and selling and marketing functions; · retention of employees from the acquired company; · unforeseen liabilities; · litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; and · in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our ordinary shares were first offered publicly in our initial public offering, or IPO, in November 2013, at a price of $16.50 per share, and our ordinary shares have subsequently traded as high as $32.69 per share and as low as $14.28 per share through March 30, 2015. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; · variance in our and our competitors’ financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; 26 · announcements by us or our competitors or other global corporations of significant business developments, changes in service provider relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · changes in the prices of our solutions; · developments concerning intellectual property rights, including our involvement in litigation; · our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future, or such sales by our significant shareholders; · market conditions in our industry; · changes in key personnel; · the trading volume of our ordinary shares; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading price for our ordinary shares is affected by any research or reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who currently cover us or our business publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or our business, and in particular, if they downgrade their evaluations of our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our ordinary shares, which in turn could cause our share price to decline. A small number of significant beneficial owners of our shares acting together have a significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, entities and individuals affiliated with Mangrove Capital Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners, as of February 28, 2015, beneficially owned in the aggregate 41.9% of our ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, could exercise a significant influence over our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: · the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; · approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; · raising future capital; and · amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. 27 This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our ordinary shares by our principal shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Future sales of our ordinary shares by our principal shareholders, Mangrove Capital Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners, who beneficially owned in the aggregate 41.9% of our ordinary shares as of February 28, 2015, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares, or the availability of our ordinary shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public marketplace by us or our shareholders, including our principal shareholders who have the right to cause us to register their shares for resale with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for investors to sell ordinary shares at a time and price which such investors deem appropriate. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the rules of NASDAQ. As permitted under the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the “Companies Law”), our articles of association provide that the quorum for any meeting of shareholders shall be the presence of at least two shareholders present in person, by proxy or by a voting instrument, who hold at least 25% of the voting power of our shares instead of 331/3% of our issued share capital. We may in the future elect to follow home country practice in Israel with regard to matters such as the formation of compensation, nominating and corporate governance committees, separate executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a United States company listed on NASDAQ may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. See “Item16.G.Corporate Governance.” As a foreign private issuer we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules or Regulation FD and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We are also exempt from Regulation FD, which prohibits issuers from making selective disclosures of material non-public information. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. 28 However, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our directors or executive officers are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. Although we have elected to comply with certain U.S. regulatory provisions, our loss of foreign private issuer status would make such provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. The market price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected by future sales of our ordinary shares. If our existing shareholders, particularly our largest shareholders, our directors, their affiliates, or our executive officers, sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that these shareholders might sell our ordinary shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our future ability to obtain capital, especially through an offering of equity securities. As of February 28, 2015, the holders of 17,800,343 of our ordinary shares were entitled to require that we register their shares under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets. All shares sold pursuant to an offering covered by such registration statement will be freely transferable. See “Item 7.B. Related Party Transaction—Registration Rights.” Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. In addition to these registration rights, 12,890,200 ordinary shares are issuable under share options and restricted share units (“RSUs”) granted to employees and office holders as of February 28, 2015, which may be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, except for shares held by affiliates who have certain restrictions on their ability to sell. You may be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences if we are classified as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each “Ten Percent Shareholder” in a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a “controlled foreign corporation,” or a CFC, for United States federal income tax purposes generally is required to include in income for U.S. federal tax purposes such Ten Percent Shareholder’s pro rata share of the CFC’s “Subpart F income” and investment of earnings in U.S. property, even if the CFC has made no distributions to its shareholders. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a CFC for United States federal income tax purposes if Ten Percent Shareholders own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of either the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote or of the total value of the stock of such corporation. A “Ten Percent Shareholder” is a United States person (as defined by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) who owns or is considered to own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such corporation. The determination of CFC status is complex and includes attribution rules, the application of which is not entirely certain. 29 We do not believe that we were a CFC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014 or that we are currently a CFC. It is possible, however, a shareholder treated as a United States person for United States federal income tax purposes will acquire, directly or indirectly, enough shares to be treated as a Ten Percent Shareholder after application of the constructive ownership rules and, together with any other Ten Percent Shareholders of the Company, cause the Company to be treated as a CFC for United States federal income tax purposes. We believe that certain of our shareholders are Ten Percent Shareholders for United States federal income tax purposes. Holders should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the potential adverse U.S. tax consequences of becoming a Ten Percent Shareholder in a CFC. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on the composition of our income and the composition and estimated fair market values of our assets, we do not believe we were classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2014. However, because PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income, it is not possible to determine whether we will be characterized as a PFIC for the 2015 taxable year until after the close of the year. There can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. Furthermore, because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization (assuming we are treated as publicly traded for purposes of the PFIC rules), a decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our United States shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than a capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are United States holders, and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. If we are characterized as a PFIC, certain elections may be available that would alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment) of our ordinary shares; however, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC. See “Item 10.E.Additional Information—Taxation.” Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or our shareholders to elect different individuals to our board of directors, even if doing so would be considered to be beneficial by some of our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Among other things: · Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and requires that a tender offer be effected when more than a specified percentage of shares in a company are purchased; · Israeli corporate law does not provide for shareholder action by written consent unless such consent is unanimous, thereby requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a general meeting of shareholders; 30 · our articles of association divide our directors into three classes each of which is elected once every three years; · our articles of association generally requires a vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders and voting in person or by proxy at the meeting, and the amendment of a limited number of provisions, such as the provision dividing our directors into three classes, requires a vote of the holders of 662/3% of our outstanding ordinary shares entitled to vote at a general meeting and voting in person or by proxy at the meeting; · our articles of association do not permit a director to be removed except by a vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders and voting in person or by proxy at the meeting; · our articles of association require that director vacancies may only be filled by our board of directors; and · our articles of association prevent “business combinations” with “interested shareholders” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in accordance with our articles of association by a general meeting of our shareholders or satisfies other requirements specified in our articles of association. Further, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel granting tax relief to such shareholders from Israeli tax. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which certain sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. See “Item 10.B.Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if our internal control over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. We are required to comply with the internal control, evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of this annual report. Accordingly, only in 2014 we commenced the process of determining whether our internal control over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. Unless we lose our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of our IPO occurred, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the year ended December 31, 2018. We cannot predict whether we will need to implement remedial actions in order to implement effective control over financial reporting. The determination and any remedial actions required could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. Further, if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. 31 As a public company we may become subject to further compliance obligations, which may strain our resources and divert management's attention. Changing laws, regulations and standards, in the United States or Israel, relating to corporate governance and public disclosure and other matters, may be implemented in the future, which may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time consuming and divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Being a publicly traded company in the United States and being subject to U.S. rules and regulations make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Incorporation and Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal executive offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. In recent years, these have included hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza strip, both of which resulted in rockets being fired into Israel, causing casualties and disruption of economic activities. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, Iran. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East, such as damages to our facilities resulting in disruption of our operations. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or will be adequate in the event we submit a claim. A number of countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel or political instability in the region continue or increase. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to distribute our products to users in these countries or establish distributor relationships with companies operating in these regions. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Moreover, individuals in certain geographical regions may refrain from doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of their objection to Israeli foreign or domestic policies. We may also continue being targeted by cyber terrorists because of being an Israeli company. 32 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2014, we had 708 employees based in Israel. Our employees in Israel, including executive officers, may be called upon to perform up to 56 days per each three year period, (in some cases more, e.g. officers may be called to serve up to 84 days per each three year period) of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (and in some cases, depending on their certain military profession up to 45 or even 49) and, in emergency circumstances, could be called to immediate and unlimited active duty (however, this would need to be approved by the Israeli government). In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been since September 2000 occasional call-ups of military reservists, including in connection with the mid-2006 war in Lebanon, the December 2008 conflict with Hamas and the 2012 and 2014 conflicts in the Gaza Strip, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruptions in the future could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, especially if we are unable to replace these key employees with other personnel qualified in information technology and data optimization. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes. We are eligible for certain tax benefits provided to “Beneficiary Enterprises” under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. In order to remain eligible for the tax benefits for “Beneficiary Enterprises” we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations, as amended. In addition, in September 2011, we received a tax ruling from the Israeli Tax Authority, according to which, among other things, the Israeli Tax Authority approved (i) our status as an “Industrial Enterprise”; and (ii) that the expansion of our enterprise is considered as a “Beneficiary Enterprise” with 2009 as an elected year of operations, all under the Investment Law as amended by 2005 Amendment. The benefits available to us under this tax ruling are subject to the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in the ruling. If we do not meet these conditions, the ruling may be abolished which would result in adverse tax consequences to us. Further, in the future these tax benefits may be reduced or discontinued. If these tax benefits are reduced, cancelled or discontinued, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies in 2012 and 2013 was 25% of their taxable income and was increased to 26.5% for 2014 and thereafter. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel through acquisitions, for example, our expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Item10.E Additional Information—Taxation—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs.” It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual reports in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We are incorporated in Israel. Only some of our directors and none of our executive officers are resident in the United States. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not a resident of the United States. Most of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert a claim based on U.S. securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. 33 Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder are governed by Israeli law which may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. corporations. Since we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in United States-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger of the company and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from discriminating against other shareholders. In addition, a controlling shareholder or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company or has another power with respect to the company, has a duty to act in fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. See “Item 6.C.Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices.” Some of the parameters and implications of the provisions that govern shareholder behavior have not been clearly determined. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of United States corporations. Additionally, we expect the quorum requirements for meetings of our shareholders to be lower than is customary for domestic issuers. As permitted under the Companies Law, pursuant to our articles of association, the quorum required for an ordinary meeting of shareholders will consist of at least two shareholders present in person, by proxy or by other voting instrument in accordance with the Companies Law, who hold at least 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares (and in an adjourned meeting, with some exceptions, any number of shareholders). For an adjourned meeting at which a quorum is not present, the meeting may generally proceed irrespective of the number of shareholders present at the end of half an hour following the time fixed for the meeting. 