Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe are a two year old company with limited historical information available for investors to evaluate our performance or a potential investment in our shares. We have a limited history of operations. We were incorporated on October 6, 2011 and began underwriting reinsurance transactions on January 1, 2012. As a result, there is limited historical information available to help prospective investors evaluate our performance or an investment in our shares. 27 In general, reinsurance and insurance companies in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. They must develop business relationships, establish operating procedures, hire staff, install information technology systems, implement management processes and complete other tasks appropriate for the conduct of their intended business activities. In particular, our ability to implement our reinsurance underwriting strategy will depend on, among other things: •our ability to attract clients; •our ability to attract and retain personnel with sufficient underwriting, actuarial and accounting and finance expertise;•our ability to maintain at least an A- (Excellent) rating from A.M. Best or a similar financial strength rating from one or more other ratings agencies;•our ability to evaluate the risks we assume under reinsurance contracts that we write; our reliance on third parties to provide certain services; and•the risk of being deemed a passive foreign investment company or an investment company if we are deemed to not be in the active conduct of an insurance business or to not be predominantly engaged in an insurance business. See “Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations-We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law” and “Risks Relating to Taxation-United States persons who own our shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.” We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient demand for the reinsurance products we plan to write to support our planned level of operations, or that we will accomplish the tasks necessary to implement our business strategy. Our operational structure is not fully developed. We are continuing to develop and implement our operational structure and enterprise framework, including exposure management, financial reporting, information technology and internal controls, with which we will conduct our business activities. Our operations are currently supplemented by manual processes, and we expect to migrate over time to a more automated control system. While we utilize manual processes, our controls may not be adequate to identify or eliminate risks. There can be no assurance that the development of our operational structure or the implementation of our enterprise risk management framework will proceed smoothly or on our projected timetable or achieve the aforementioned goals. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments, which are even more difficult than those made in a mature company, and which, if inaccurate, could cause volatility in our results. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes the item that requires the most subjective and complex estimates is the reserve for losses and loss expenses. Due to our relatively short operating history, loss experience is limited and reliable evidence of changes in trends of numbers of claims incurred, average settlement amounts, numbers of claims outstanding and average losses per claim may take years to develop. In addition, the possibility of future litigation or legislative change that may affect interpretation of policy terms further increases the degree of uncertainty in the reserving process. The uncertainties inherent in the reserving process, together with the potential for unforeseen developments, including changes in laws and the prevailing interpretation of policy terms, may result in losses and loss expenses materially different from the reserves initially established. Changes to prior year reserves will affect current underwriting results by increasing net income if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant or by decreasing net income if the prior year reserves prove to 28 be insufficient. We expect volatility in results in periods in which significant loss events occur because U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers or reinsurers to reserve for loss events until they have occurred and are expected to give rise to a claim. As a result, we are not allowed to record contingency reserves to account for expected future losses. We anticipate that claims arising from future events may require the establishment of substantial reserves from time to time. Our results of operations fluctuate from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. The performance of our reinsurance operations and our investment portfolio fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including: •reinsurance contract pricing; •our assessment of the quality of available reinsurance opportunities; •the volume and mix of reinsurance products we underwrite; •loss experience on our reinsurance liabilities; •our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy properly; and •the performance of our investment portfolio. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve favorable return on equity over the long term. In addition, our opportunistic nature and focus on long-term growth in book value result in fluctuations in total premiums written from period to period as we concentrate on underwriting contracts that we believe will generate better long-term, rather than short-term, results. Accordingly, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to effectively market our products or offer our products at a profit. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major reinsurers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do, as well as other potential providers of capital willing to assume insurance or reinsurance risk. Competition in the types of business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including: •price of reinsurance coverage; •the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the reinsurer; •relationships with reinsurance brokers; •terms and conditions of products offered; •ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; •speed of claims payment and reputation; and•the experience and reputation of the members of our underwriting team in the particular lines of reinsurance we seek to underwrite. Our competitors include, among others, Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., Arch Capital Group Ltd., ACE Limited, Alleghany Corporation, Hannover Rückversicherung AG, Everest Re Group, Ltd., Swiss Re Limited, Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG., Maiden Holdings Ltd., PartnerRe Ltd. and Catlin Group Ltd. In addition, Greenlight Reinsurance, Ltd. has a business model similar to ours, and we expect to compete with them in many lines of business and geographies. In the future, 29 we may also have to compete for the type of reinsurance we intend to underwrite with new start-up companies that have a business model similar to ours.We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the reinsurance market. Our failure to compete effectively would significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations and may increase the likelihood that we are deemed to be a passive foreign investment company or an investment company. See “Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations-We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law” and “Risks Relating to Taxation-United States persons who own our shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.” If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of our contracts are generally written for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s contracts. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses with periods of intense competition, often based on price. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations would be materially adversely affected. The inherent uncertainty of models and the use of such models as a tool to evaluate risk may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We license analytic and modeling capabilities software from third parties to facilitate our pricing, capital modeling software and objective risk assessment relating to risks in our reinsurance portfolio. These models help us to control risk accumulation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and to improve the risk/return profile or minimize the amount of capital required to cover the risks in each reinsurance contract in our overall portfolio of reinsurance contracts. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. Accordingly, these models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from many sources including fraud, errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or information technology failures. We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business and reputation. Moreover, our technology and applications are an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable systems, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. In addition, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these systems without slowing our underwriting response time. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, a loss or delay of revenues or increased expense. Technology breaches or failures, including those resulting from a malicious cyber-attack on us or our business partners and service providers, could disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our business. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect the electronic information, financial data and proprietary models that are critical to our business. Furthermore, a significant portion of the 30 communications between our employees and our business, banking and investment partners depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. Like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures. We believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed or stored in such systems, and we periodically evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we have established a business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. Our business continuity plan is routinely tested and evaluated for adequacy. Despite these safeguards, disruptions to and breaches of our information technology systems are possible and may negatively impact our business. It is possible that insurance policies we have in place with third parties would not entirely protect us in the event that we experienced a breach, interruption or widespread failure of our information technology systems. Furthermore, we have not secured insurance coverage designed to specifically protect us from an economic loss resulting from such events. Although we have never experienced any known or threatened cases involving unauthorized access to our information technology systems or unauthorized appropriation of the data contained within such systems, we have no assurance that such technology breaches will not occur in the future. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We intend to grow our business in the future, which could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. Additionally, as we grow, the ability of our management to source sufficient reasonably priced reinsurance business in the segments we target may be limited. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our losses may exceed our loss reserves, which could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our results of operations and financial condition depends upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks we reinsure. Reserves are estimates of claims an insurer ultimately expects to pay, based upon facts and circumstances known at the time, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim severity and other variable factors. The inherent uncertainties of estimating loss reserves generally are greater for reinsurance companies as compared to primary insurers, primarily due to: •the lapse of time from the occurrence of an event to the reporting of the claim and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the claim; •the diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties; and •heavier reliance on the client for information regarding claims. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate substantially from the estimates of our loss reserves, to our detriment. If we determine our loss reserves to be inadequate, we will increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which we identify the deficiency. Such a reduction would negatively affect our results of operations. If our losses exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition may be significantly and negatively affected. 31 As a recently formed reinsurance company, we do not have the benefit of extended loss experience with our cedents. With additional time, we may determine that our cedents’ loss emergence, incurred and payment patterns are different from those implied in the original submission data. Consequently, we may experience greater than average deviation in our loss reserve estimates when compared to our more established competitors. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we seek to mitigate our loss exposure through a variety of methods, property and casualty reinsurance risk is inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing, frequency and severity of loss events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We seek to manage reinsurance volatility by focusing on lines of business that have historically demonstrated more stable return characteristics, such as property quota share, auto, workers’ compensation and certain segments of crop. These lines of business are often characterized as having exposure to higher frequency and lower severity claims activity, although this has not always been the case. We seek to further manage the volatility of our reinsurance results by writing policies on a quota share basis and through the use of contractual terms and conditions, such as loss ratio caps, within our reinsurance contracts. In addition, in contrast to many reinsurers with whom we compete, we write property catastrophe reinsurance on an excess of loss basis exclusively through the Catastrophe Reinsurer, which is a separately capitalized reinsurance vehicle. We also write reinsurance contracts that seek to provide protection against adverse development on loss reserves. We seek to provide this type of coverage only on relatively stable reserves where we agree with the client's reserving practices and actuarially determined reserve levels. However, there can be no assurance that these loss limitation methods will be effective in mitigating our exposure, or that market or other conditions would necessitate a different loss mitigation strategy. The failure or ineffectiveness of any of our loss limitation methods could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we expect to continue to experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. Historically, reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, changes in equity, debt and other investment markets, changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability and other factors. In particular, demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by the underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the reinsurance industry on both underwriting and investment sides. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to high levels of available underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity have permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. The supply of available reinsurance capital has increased over the past several years and may increase further, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers. Continued increases in the supply of reinsurance may have consequences for us and for the reinsurance insurance generally, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. As a result, we may be unable to fully execute our reinsurance strategy of selling lower-volatility business. The effects of cyclicality could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 32 The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial and regulatory conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the period that we intended or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under our insurance or reinsurance contracts for many years following the issuance of our contracts. The effects of unforeseen development or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to adhere to our goals. A downgrade or withdrawal of our A.M. Best rating would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent ratings agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. A.M. Best has assigned us a financial strength rating of A- (Excellent), which is the fourth highest of 15 ratings that A.M. Best issues. This rating reflects the rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations. It is not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our shares. A.M. Best periodically reviews our rating, and may revise it downward or revoke it at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of our balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Factors which may affect such an analysis include: •if we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports A.M. Best’s initial rating; •if unfavorable financial or market trends impact us; •if our losses exceed our loss reserves; •if we are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel; •if our investment portfolio incurs significant losses; or •if A.M. Best alters its capital adequacy assessment methodology in a manner that would adversely affect Third Point Re’s rating.If A.M. Best downgrades our rating below A- (Excellent), places us on credit watch or withdraws our rating, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance contracts which would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. A downgrade may also require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients. In addition, almost all of our reinsurance contracts provide the client with the right to terminate the agreement or require us to transfer premiums on a funds withheld basis if our A- (Excellent) A.M. Best rating is downgraded. The contracts containing such a termination right represented approximately 86.0% of gross premiums written during 2013 and 95.8% of gross premiums written during 2012. A significant decrease in our capital or surplus could enable certain clients to terminate reinsurance agreements or to require additional collateral. Certain of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that permit our clients to cancel the contract or require additional collateral in the event of a downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or a reduction of our capital or surplus below specified levels over the course of the agreement. Whether a client would exercise such cancellation rights would likely depend, among other things, on the reason the provision is triggered, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. 33 If any such provisions were to become exercisable, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights or the extent to which they would have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects but they could have a significant adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent on key executives, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management, in particular Mr. Berger, and other key personnel, such as our chief financial officer and chief operating officer, our chief actuary and chief risk officer and our senior underwriting executives, to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available and qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management, in particular Mr. Berger, or other key personnel could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management. If any member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we would be solely responsible for locating an adequate replacement for such senior management and for bearing any related cost. To the extent that we are unable to locate an adequate replacement or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, our business may be significantly and negatively affected. In addition, our business operations require the services of a number of specialized employees to carry out day-to-day business operations. There can be no assurance that we can attract and retain the necessary employees to conduct our business activities on a timely basis or at all. Our failure to obtain sufficient letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We are not licensed or admitted as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. Certain jurisdictions, including in the United States, do not permit insurance companies to take statutory credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, certain clients require us to obtain a letter of credit or provide other collateral through funds withheld or trust arrangements. In connection with obtaining letter of credit facilities, we are typically required to provide customary collateral to the letter of credit provider in order to secure our obligations under the facility. Our ability to provide collateral, and the costs at which we provide collateral, is primarily dependent on the composition of our investment portfolio. Typically, letters of credit are collateralized with fixed-income securities. Banks may be willing to accept our investment portfolio as collateral, but on terms that may be less favorable to us than reinsurance companies that invest solely or predominantly in fixed-income securities. The inability to renew, maintain or obtain letters of credit collateralized by our investment portfolio may significantly limit the amount of reinsurance we can write or require us to modify our investment strategy. We may need additional letter of credit capacity as we grow, and if we are unable to renew, maintain or increase our letter of credit facilities or are unable to do so on commercially acceptable terms, such a development could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. Our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other factors. Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. is a holding company that conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. The majority of our reinsurance operations are conducted through our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, Third Point Re, and Third Point Re may also receive income relating to its shareholdings in the Catastrophe Fund. Our cash flows 34 consist primarily of dividends and other permissible payments from Third Point Re and income generated from management fees payable to the Catastrophe Fund Manager, our majority owned subsidiary that provides management services to the Catastrophe Fund. Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. depends on such payments to receive funds to meet its obligations, including the payment of any dividends and other distributions to our shareholders. Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. is indirectly subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints placed on Third Point Re and the Catastrophe Reinsurer, which is the licensed special purpose insurer that writes policies for the Catastrophe Fund. This affects our ability to pay dividends on the shares and make other payments. Under the Insurance Act, Third Point Re, as a Class 4 insurer, is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin (“MSM”), enhanced capital ratio (“ECR”) or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividend would cause such a breach. Where Third Point Re, as a Class 4 insurer, fails to meet its MSM or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, it is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the BMA. In addition, Third Point Re, as a Class 4 insurer, is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) unless it files (at least seven days before payment of such dividends) with the BMA an affidavit signed by at least two directors (one of whom must be a Bermuda resident director if any of the insurer’s directors are resident in Bermuda) and the principal representative stating that it will continue to meet its solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio. Where such an affidavit is filed, it shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the BMA. The Catastrophe Reinsurer, as a special purpose insurer, is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during any financial year if it is in breach of its minimum solvency margin or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause it to fail to meet such minimum margin. If the Catastrophe Reinsurer, as a special purpose insurer, were to fail to meet its minimum solvency margin on the last day of any financial year, it would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the BMA. In addition, under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), Bermuda companies such as Third Point Reinsurance Ltd., Third Point Re and the Catastrophe Reinsurer may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the relevant Bermuda company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than its liabilities. We may need additional capital in the future in order to operate our business, and such capital may not be available to us or may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Furthermore, additional capital raising could dilute your ownership interest in our company and may cause the value of the shares to decline. We may need to raise additional capital in the future through offerings of debt or equity securities or otherwise to: •fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses; •replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments; •satisfy letters of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators; •meet rating agency or regulatory capital requirements; or •respond to competitive pressures. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute your ownership interest in our company and may cause the value of our shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt may result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of the holders of our shares. 35 Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows. Climate change, to the extent it produces extreme changes in temperatures and changes in weather patterns, could affect the frequency or severity of weather events and wildfires. Further, it could reduce the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance, which could have an effect on pricing. Changes in weather patterns could also affect the frequency and severity of other natural catastrophe events to which we may be exposed. For example, due to the severe drought that impacted most of the U.S. farm belt in 2012, we suffered a $10.0 million underwriting loss on $42.5 million of earned crop premium.Our reinsurance operations may make us vulnerable to losses from catastrophes and may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. While Third Point Re, our Class 4 reinsurer, currently does not directly underwrite catastrophe exposed reinsurance business on an excess of loss basis, we recently launched an open-ended catastrophe reinsurance fund with an exposure to a diversified portfolio of peak zone natural catastrophe risk. Involvement in catastrophe exposed excess of loss reinsurance through our investment in the Catastrophe Fund exposes us to claims arising out of unpredictable catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hailstorms, tornadoes, windstorms, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, droughts, fires, explosions, volcanic eruptions, acts of war or terrorism or political unrest and other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable but the loss experience of property catastrophe reinsurers has been generally characterized as low frequency and high severity. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year. In addition, we are exposed to the impact of catastrophic events in some cases through the property and casualty quota share reinsurance business of Third Point Re, as significant disasters or weather events can result in increased claims under such lines of business as auto or crop. If a natural or man-made disaster significantly increased the amount of claims payable under the types of property and casualty reinsurance written by Third Point Re, our reinsurance results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our clients’ evaluations of the risks associated with their insurance underwriting, which may subject us to reinsurance losses. In most of our quota share reinsurance business we do not separately evaluate each of the original individual risks assumed under these reinsurance contracts. Therefore, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the clients may not have adequately evaluated the insured risks and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We also do not separately evaluate each of the individual claims made on the underlying insurance contracts. Therefore, we are dependent on the original claims decisions made by our clients. We are subject to the risk that the client may pay invalid claims, which could result in reinsurance losses for us. The involvement of reinsurance brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, remit these amounts to the ceding companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the client for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the client pays premiums for policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with reinsurance brokers around the world. 36 The inability to obtain business provided from brokers could adversely affect our business strategy and results of operations. We market our reinsurance worldwide primarily through reinsurance brokers. Business placed by our top three reinsurance brokers, Guy Carpenter & Company, LLC, Advocate Reinsurance Partners, LLC, and Aon Benfield, accounted for approximately 65.9% of our gross premiums written since inception. Affiliates of several brokers have also co-sponsored the formation of Bermuda reinsurance companies that may compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own reinsurers over other companies. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for the liabilities we reinsure, and if we successfully purchase such reinsurance, we may be unable to collect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we did not purchase retrocessional coverage in 2012, we began to do so in 2013 and may continue to do so in the future, in order to mitigate the effect of a potential concentration of losses upon our financial condition. The insolvency or inability or refusal of a reinsurer to make payments under the terms of its agreement with us could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our client. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of retrocession that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional coverage or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain retrocession from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Our failure to establish adequate retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations could result in exchange rate losses and negatively impact our business. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. However, starting in 2014 we will write a portion of our business and receive premiums in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our investment manager, Third Point LLC, invests a portion of our portfolio in assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, we may experience exchange rate losses to the extent our foreign currency exposure is not hedged or is not sufficiently hedged, which could significantly and negatively affect our business. If we do seek to hedge our foreign currency exposure through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts or currency swaps, we may be subject to the risk that our counterparties to the arrangements fail to perform. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions relating to the ability to obtain and retain work permits for key employees in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda, and none of our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and chief operating officer, our chief actuary and chief risk officer or our senior underwriting executives are Bermudians or spouses of Bermudians. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or a holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to ten years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. If work permits are not obtained, or are not renewed, for our principal employees, we would lose their services, which could materially affect our businesses. 37 Risks Relating to Our Investment Strategy and Investment Manager We have limited control over how our investment portfolio is allocated, and its performance depends on the ability of our investment manager, Third Point LLC, to select and manage appropriate investments. We have engaged Third Point LLC to act as our exclusive investment manager for substantially all of our investment portfolio and to recommend appropriate investment opportunities. Although Third Point LLC is contractually obligated to follow our investment guidelines, we cannot assure shareholders as to exactly how assets will be allocated to different investment opportunities, including long and short positions and derivatives trading, which could increase the level of risk in our investment. The performance of our investment portfolio depends to a great extent on the ability of Third Point LLC, as our investment manager to select and manage appropriate investments. We have entered into an investment management agreement with Third Point LLC which terminates on December 22, 2016 and is subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term. We have limited ability to terminate the investment management agreement earlier. We cannot assure you that Third Point LLC will be successful in meeting our investment objectives. The failure of Third Point LLC to perform adequately could significantly and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The historical performance of Third Point LLC should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio or of our future results or of any returns expected on our common shares. The historical returns of the funds managed by Third Point LLC are not directly linked to returns on our common shares. Although as our investment manager, Third Point LLC has agreed to invest our portfolio on substantially the same basis as Third Point LLC’s hedge funds, results for our investment portfolio could differ from results of the funds managed by Third Point LLC as a result of restrictions imposed by our investment guidelines. In addition, even if our investment portfolio generates investment income in a given period, our overall performance could be adversely affected by losses generated by our reinsurance operations. Poor performance of our investment portfolio will cause a decline in our revenue from that portfolio and will therefore have a negative effect on our financial performance. Moreover, with respect to the historical performance of funds or accounts managed by Third Point LLC, including our investment portfolio: •the historical performance of funds managed by Third Point LLC should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from our investment portfolio; and •the returns of funds managed by Third Point LLC have benefited historically from investment opportunities and general market conditions that currently may not exist and may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that Third Point LLC will be able to avail itself of profitable investment opportunities in the future. The risks associated with Third Point LLC’s strategy in managing our investment portfolio may be substantially greater than the investment risks faced by other reinsurers with whom we compete. We may derive a significant portion of our income from our investment portfolio. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. We cannot assure you that Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, will successfully structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities. Failure to do so could force us to liquidate investments at a significant loss or at prices that are not optimal, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial results. 38 The risks associated with Third Point LLC’s investment strategy may be substantially greater than the risks associated with traditional fixed-income investment strategies employed by many reinsurers with whom we compete. Third Point LLC makes investments globally, in both developed and emerging markets, in all sectors, and in equity, credit, commodity, currency, option and other instruments with a focus on event-driven situations, in which Third Point LLC believes that a catalyst, either intrinsic or extrinsic, will unlock value or alter the lens through which the greater market values a particular investment. Making long equity investments in an up or rising market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market declines. Similarly, making short equity investments in a down or falling market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market rises. The market price of our common shares may be volatile and the risk of loss may be greater when compared with other reinsurance companies. In addition to risks associated with volatility in our portfolio, although we conduct our business through our Class 4 Bermuda licensed insurance company as an operating reinsurance business actively engaged in writing property and casualty coverage, because our investment portfolio as managed by Third Point LLC may include a very small number of futures, options on futures, swaps and other commodity interests from time to time, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) could assert that our business has been operated for the purpose of trading commodity interests and we are, therefore, a commodity pool. If this were to occur, our investment strategy and our business could be disrupted as we would be required to have a registered commodity pool operator in order to continue to include investments in commodity interests in our investment portfolio. Registered commodity pool operators are subject to disclosure, reporting and recordkeeping requirements with respect to the pools they operate. In addition, if it were established that we were a commodity pool, the CFTC could pursue remedies against the party or parties it deems to be the commodity pool operator, and we could under certain circumstances be required to indemnify those individuals or entities. The termination by Third Point LLC of our investment management agreement at the end of its term or any successive term could materially adversely affect our investment results. We depend upon Third Point LLC, our investment manager, to implement our investment strategy. The investment management agreement, which terminates on December 22, 2016, is subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term. If Third Point LLC chooses to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term, there is no assurance that we could find a suitable replacement. Potential conflicts of interest with Third Point LLC may exist that could adversely affect us. Neither Third Point LLC nor its principals, including Daniel S. Loeb, who is one of our shareholders, are obligated to devote any specific amount of time to our affairs. Affiliates of Third Point LLC manage, and expect to continue to manage, other client accounts, some of which have objectives similar to ours, including collective investment vehicles managed by Third Point LLC’s affiliates and in which Third Point LLC or its affiliates may have an equity interest. Pursuant to our investment management agreement with Third Point LLC, Third Point LLC has the exclusive right to manage our investment portfolio and is required to follow our investment guidelines and act in a manner that is fair and equitable in allocating investment opportunities to us, but the agreement does not otherwise impose any specific obligations or requirements concerning allocation of time, effort or investment opportunities to us or any restriction on the nature or timing of investments for our account and for Third Point LLC’s own account or other accounts that Third Point LLC or its affiliates may manage. Third Point LLC’s interest and the interests of its affiliates, may at times conflict, possibly to Third Point LLC's detriment, which may potentially adversely affect our investment opportunities and returns. 39 Our investment portfolio may contain large positions which could result in large losses. Our investment guidelines provide that as our investment manager, Third Point LLC may commit up to 15% of our assets under management to any one investment. Our investment portfolio could be subject to significant losses if it holds a relatively large position in a single issuer, industry, market or a particular type of investment that declines in value, and the losses could increase even further if the investments cannot be liquidated without adverse market reaction or are otherwise adversely affected by changes in market conditions or circumstances. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the net exposure of our portfolio was 87% and 63%, respectively, and the largest ten long and short positions comprised an aggregate of 40% and 11% and 41% and 24%, respectively, of our investment portfolio. Since our investment portfolio may not be widely diversified at times, it may be subject to more rapid changes in value than would be the case if the investment portfolio were required to maintain a wide diversification among companies, securities and types of securities. We are exposed to credit risk from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations. To the extent that transactions in our investment portfolio are entered into directly and not through a broker or clearinghouse, including, but not limited to, forward foreign currency transactions, swap transactions, and the purchase and sale of bonds and other fixed income securities directly from the current holder thereof, we must rely on the creditworthiness of the counterparty to the extent it is unable to deliver the promised asset or cash flows in the case of cash settled transactions, net of any collateral that has been posted by or to the counterparty. The bankruptcy or insolvency of these counterparties could also result in a loss of any collateral posted against these transactions. In addition, any prime broker or custodian through whom transactions are effected in our investment portfolio will each have a lien over assets held in a margin account with such counterparty. Further, should a prime broker or custodian become insolvent, those assets may become unavailable for redemption and potentially classified as belonging to the defaulting party. The insolvency of any such prime broker or custodian could result in the loss of a substantial portion or all of the assets held with such counterparty. Assets which are deposited with brokers as collateral against margin loss may become available to the creditors of the brokers in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the broker to the extent that it is needed to satisfy obligations to the insolvent party. Any reduction in our assets as a result of a default by a prime broker could negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio. If Third Point LLC’s risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. Third Point LLC continually refines its risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, its risk management techniques and strategies do not fully mitigate the risk exposure of its funds and managed accounts, including our investment portfolio, in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that they might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of Third Point LLC’s strategies for managing risk are based upon its use of historical market behavior statistics. Any failures in Third Point LLC’s risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit the risk-adjusted returns of our investment portfolio. In addition, any risk management failures could cause losses in the portfolios managed by Third Point LLC, including our managed account, to be significantly greater than the historical measures predict. Third Point LLC’s approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses in our investment portfolio. In managing our investment portfolio, Third Point LLC may trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage, which could potentially adversely affect our revenues. Our investment guidelines provide Third Point LLC with the ability to trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage. Fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio could have a disproportionately large effect in relation to our capital. As of December 31, 2013, our investment account had $3.1 million of margin debt at its brokers. A common metric used to determine financial leverage for accounts such as our investment portfolio is the “gross exposure” of our managed account. The “gross exposure” is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value 40 (“NAV”) of the account, and represents the market exposure in the account (long and short) versus the NAV. In other words, if the NAV of an account is $100, and the account holds securities “long” with an aggregate market exposure of $100 (100% long), and has sold short securities with an aggregate market exposure of $25 (25% short), then the gross exposure would be 125% (i.e., $125 of investments against $100 of NAV). As of December 31, 2013, the gross exposure of our investment portfolio was 112.0%. Any event which may adversely affect the value of positions we hold could significantly and negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio and thus our results of operations. In managing our investment portfolio, Third Point LLC engages in short sales that may subject us to unlimited loss potential. As our investment manager, Third Point LLC routinely enters into transactions for our account in which it sells a security that we do not own, which we refer to as a short sale, in anticipation of a decline in the market value of the security. Short sales for our account theoretically will involve unlimited loss potential since the market price of securities sold short may continuously increase. If the market price of the subject security increases considerably, Third Point LLC might have to cover short sales at suboptimal prices. As of December 31, 2013, short exposure in our investment portfolio was $401.0 million over 126 debt, equity and index positions, including $20.5 million over nine positions in the equity portfolio. Third Point LLC’s representatives’ service on boards and committees may place trading restrictions on our investments. Third Point LLC may from time to time place its or its affiliates’ representatives on creditors’ committees or boards of certain companies in which our portfolio is invested. While such representation may enable Third Point LLC to enhance the sale value of our investments, it may also place trading restrictions on our investments. As of the date hereof, representatives of Third Point LLC sat on the board of directors of Enphase Energy, Inc., whose securities are publicly traded and included in our investment portfolio. The ability to use ‘‘soft dollars’’ may provide Third Point LLC with an incentive to select certain brokers that may take into account benefits to be received by Third Point LLC. Under certain circumstances and subject to compliance with the safe harbor provided by section 28(e) of the Exchange Act, Third Point LLC is entitled to use so-called “soft dollars” generated by commissions paid in connection with transactions for our investment portfolio to pay for certain categories of expenses relating to research and related services provide by brokers. Soft dollars are a means of paying brokerage firms for their services through commission revenue, rather than through direct payments. Third Point LLC’s right to use soft dollars may give Third Point LLC an incentive to select brokers or dealers for our transactions, or to negotiate commission rates or other execution terms, in a manner that takes into account the soft dollar benefits received by Third Point LLC rather than giving exclusive consideration to the interests of our investment portfolio and, accordingly, may create a conflict. Our investment management agreement has limited termination provisions. Our investment management agreement with Third Point LLC has limited termination provisions which restrict our ability to manage our investment portfolio outside of Third Point LLC. Because the investment management agreement contains exclusivity and limited termination provisions, we are unable to use investment managers other than Third Point LLC for so long as the agreement is in effect. The investment management agreement was entered into on December 22, 2011 and has an initial term of five years, subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term. We may also terminate the investment management agreement upon the death, long-term disability or retirement of Daniel S. Loeb, or the occurrence of other circumstances in which Mr. Loeb is no longer directing the investment program of Third Point LLC. 41 We may also withdraw as participants under the investment management agreement prior to the expiration of the investment management agreement’s term at any time only “for cause”, which is defined as: •a material violation of applicable law relating to Third Point LLC’s advisory business; •Third Point LLC’s fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of its obligations under the investment management agreement; •a material breach by Third Point LLC of our investment guidelines that is not cured within a 15-day period; •a conviction or, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or a crime affecting the asset management business of Third Point LLC by certain senior officers of Third Point LLC; •any act of fraud, material misappropriation, material dishonesty, embezzlement, or similar conduct against or involving us by senior officers of Third Point LLC; or •a formal administrative or other legal proceeding before the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, or any other U.S. or non-U.S. regulatory or self-regulatory organization against Third Point LLC or certain key personnel which would likely have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we may withdraw as a participant under the investment management agreement prior to the expiration of its term if our portfolio underperforms as measured against specified benchmarks. We may not withdraw or terminate the investment management agreement on the basis of performance other than as provided above. If we become dissatisfied with the results of the investment performance of Third Point LLC as our investment manager but the contractually specified termination threshold has not been met, we will be unable to hire new investment managers until the investment management agreement expires by its terms or is terminated for cause. Certain of our investments may have limited liquidity and lack valuation data, which could create a conflict of interest. Our investment guidelines provide Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, with the flexibility to invest in certain securities with limited liquidity or no public market. This lack of liquidity may adversely affect the ability of Third Point LLC to execute trade orders at desired prices. To the extent that Third Point LLC invests our investable assets in securities or instruments for which market quotations or other independent pricing sources are not readily available, under the terms of the investment management agreement the valuation of such securities and instruments for purposes of compensation to Third Point LLC will be determined by Third Point LLC, whose determination, subject to audit verification, will be conclusive and binding in the absence of bad faith or manifest error. Because the investment management agreement gives Third Point LLC the power to determine the value of securities with no readily discernible market value, and because the calculation of Third Point LLC’s fee is based on the value of the investment account, a conflict may exist or arise. The U.S. and global economic downturns could harm the performance of our investment portfolio, our liquidity and financial condition and our share price. Volatility in the United States and other securities markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio. The ability of Third Point LLC to manage our investment portfolio profitably is dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic and geopolitical conditions throughout the world that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Factors such as equity prices, equity market volatility, asset or market correlations, interest rates, counterparty risks, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws or regulation (including 42 laws relating to the financial markets generally or the taxation or regulation of the hedge fund industry), trade barriers, commodity prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including governmental instability, wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material impact on the value of our investment portfolio. If Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, fails to react appropriately to difficult market, economic and geopolitical conditions, our investment portfolio could incur material losses. Third Point LLC’s use of hedging and derivative transactions in executing trades for our account may not be successful, which could materially adversely affect our investment results. In managing our investment portfolio, Third Point LLC may utilize various financial instruments both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to protect against possible changes in the market value of our investment portfolio resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates, protect unrealized gains in the value of our investment portfolio, facilitate the sale of any such investments, enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in our investment portfolio, hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on certain liabilities or assets, protect against any increase in the price of any securities Third Point LLC anticipates purchasing for our account at a later date or for any other reason that Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, deems appropriate. The success of such hedging strategy will be subject to Third Point LLC’s ability to correctly assess the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the investments in the portfolio being hedged. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of such hedging strategy will also be subject to Third Point LLC’s ability to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While Third Point LLC may enter into hedging transactions for our account to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for our investment portfolio than if it had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, in managing our investment portfolio Third Point LLC may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent Third Point LLC from achieving the intended hedge or expose our investment portfolio to risk of loss. Our investment portfolio includes investments in mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, whose investment characteristics differ from corporate debt securities. Our investment portfolio may from time to time be invested in mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, whose investment characteristics differ from corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of asset-backed securities in our investment portfolio was $325.5 million. Among the major differences are that interest and principal payments are made more frequently, usually monthly, and that principal may be prepaid at any time because the underlying mortgage loans or other assets generally may be prepaid at any time. Mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities may also be subject to call risk and extension risk. For example, because homeowners have the option to prepay their mortgages, the duration of a security backed by home mortgages can either shorten or lengthen. In general, if interest rates on new mortgage loans fall sufficiently below the interest rates on existing outstanding mortgage loans, the rate of prepayment would be expected to increase. Conversely, if mortgage loan interest rates rise above the interest rates on existing outstanding mortgage loans, the rate of prepayment would be expected to decrease. In either case, a change in the prepayment rate can result in losses to investors. If our investment portfolio includes securities that are subordinated to other interests in the same mortgage pool, we may only receive payments after the pool’s obligations to other investors have been satisfied. In addition, our investment portfolio may, from time to time, be invested in structures commonly known as “Re-REMICS,” in which case a trust is further split between a senior tranche and a junior tranche. Third Point LLC usually buys the junior tranche for its funds and the accounts it manages in such circumstances. An unexpectedly high rate of default on mortgages held by a mortgage pool may limit substantially the pool’s ability to make payments to holders of such securities, reducing the value of those securities or rendering them worthless. The risk of such defaults is generally higher in the case of mortgage pools that include 43 “sub-prime” mortgages. Changes in laws and other regulatory developments relating to mortgage loans may impact the investments of our portfolio in mortgage-backed securities in the future. Our investment portfolio may include investments in securities of issuers based outside the United States, including emerging markets, which may be riskier than securities of U.S. issuers. Under our investment guidelines, Third Point LLC may invest in securities of issuers organized or based outside the United States that may involve heightened risks in comparison to the risks of investing in domestic securities, including unfavorable changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations, reduced and less reliable information about issuers and markets, less stringent accounting standards, illiquidity of securities and markets, higher brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and custody fees, local economic or political instability and greater market risk in general. In particular, investing in securities of issuers located in emerging market countries involves additional risks, such as exposure to economic structures that are generally less diverse and mature than, and to political systems that can be expected to have less stability than, those of developed countries. Other characteristics of emerging market countries that may affect investment in their markets include certain national policies that may restrict investment by foreigners in issuers or industries deemed sensitive to relevant national interests and the absence of developed legal structures governing private and foreign investments and private property. The typically small size of the markets for securities of issuers located in emerging markets and the possibility of a low or nonexistent volume of trading in those securities may also result in a lack of liquidity and in price volatility of those securities. In addition, dividend and interest payments from and capital gains in respect of certain foreign securities may be subject to foreign taxes that may or may not be reclaimable. Finally, many transactions in these markets are executed as a “total return swap” or other derivative transaction with a financial institution counterparty, and as a result our investment portfolio has counterparty credit risk with respect to such counterparty. In addition, within the Euro-zone, there remains significant market concern as to the potential default of government issuers. In addition to European sovereign debt, we have other assets in our investment portfolio that are Euro-denominated. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $97.5 million by market exposure of our invested assets were denominated in Euros. A devaluation of the Euro could lead to a significant decline in the value of these assets. Should governments default on their obligations, there could be a negative impact on both our direct holdings within our investment portfolio as well as non-government issues held within the country of default. Third Point LLC’s role as an engaged investor in special situation and distressed investments may subject us or Third Point Re to increased risks including the incurrence of additional legal or other expenses. As our investment manager, Third Point LLC may invest a portion of our investment portfolio in special situation companies. This generally involves investments in securities of companies in event-driven special situations such as acquisitions, tender offers, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, spinoffs, corporate and financial restructurings, litigation or other liability impairments, turnarounds, management changes, consolidating industries and other catalyst-oriented situations. Third Point LLC may also invest our portfolio in securities of issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial financial needs or negative net worth or facing special competitive or product obsolescence issues or that are involved in bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, liquidation or other corporate restructuring. Investments of this type involve substantial financial business risks that can result in substantial or total losses. Among the problems involved in assessing and making investments in troubled issuers is that fact that it frequently may be difficult to obtain information as to the condition of such issuer. The market prices of the securities of such issuers are also subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above average price volatility and the spread between the bid and asked prices of such securities may be greater than normally expected. It may take a number of years for the market prices of such securities to reflect their intrinsic values, if at all. It is anticipated that some of such securities may not be widely traded, and that a position in such securities may be substantial in relation to the market for such securities. As a consequence of Third Point LLC’s role as an engaged investor in special situation and distressed investments, our investment portfolio may be subject to increased risk of incurring additional legal, indemnification or other expenses, even if we are not named in any action. In distressed or special situations litigation often follows 44 when disgruntled shareholders, creditors, and other parties seek to recover losses from poorly performing investments. The enhanced litigation risk for distressed companies is further elevated by the potential that Third Point LLC may have controlling or influential positions in the companies. Some of the claims that can be asserted against Third Point LLC as a distressed investor include: aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; equitable subordination of the investor's claims; recharacterization of the investor’s claims; and preference or fraudulent transfer claims. Third Point LLC’s use of short-selling for its funds and the accounts it manages has subjected, and may continue to subject Third Point LLC and the short sellers to increased risk of litigation. Lawsuits can be brought against short sellers of a company’s stock to discourage short selling. Among other claims, these suits may allege libel, conspiracy, and market manipulation. Third Point LLC’s diminution or loss of service or loss of key employees could materially adversely affect our investment results. We depend upon Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, to implement our investment strategy. All investment decisions with respect to our investment portfolio are made by Third Point LLC, subject to our investment guidelines, under the general supervision of Daniel S. Loeb. As a result, the success of our investment strategy depends largely upon the abilities of Mr. Loeb. While we may terminate the investment management agreement with Third Point LLC upon the death, long-term disability or retirement of Mr. Loeb, or the occurrence of other circumstances in which Mr. Loeb is no longer directing the investment program of Third Point LLC, no assurance can be given that a suitable replacement could be found. The compensation arrangements of Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, may create an incentive to effect transactions that are risky or speculative. Our investment management agreement provides for the following two forms of compensation to be paid to Third Point LLC and TP GP:•Third Point LLC is entitled to a management fee of 2% annually (less the Founders payment paid to the Lead Investors and Dowling, as described in our investment management agreement), charged monthly, based on net assets under management; and •TP GP is entitled to performance compensation based on the appreciation, including unrealized appreciation, in the value of our investment portfolio equal to 20% of net profits, subject to a loss carryforward provision. While the performance compensation arrangement provides that losses will be carried forward as an offset against net profits in subsequent periods, Third Point LLC generally will not otherwise be penalized for realized losses or decreases in the value of our portfolio. These performance compensation arrangements may create an incentive for Third Point LLC as our investment manager to engage in transactions that focus on the potential for short-term gains rather than long-term growth or that are particularly risky or speculative. Increased regulation or scrutiny of alternative investment advisers and certain trading methods such as short selling may affect Third Point LLC’s ability to manage our investment portfolio or affect our business reputation. The regulatory environment for investment managers is evolving, and changes in the regulation of managers may adversely affect the ability of Third Point LLC to effect transactions in our investment portfolio that utilize leverage or to pursue its trading strategies in managing our investment portfolio. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. Any future regulatory change could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 45 In addition, a number of states and municipal pension plans have adopted so-called “pay-to-play” laws, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict or require disclosure of payments to (and/or certain contacts with) state officials by individuals and entities seeking to do business with state entities, including investments by public retirement funds. The SEC also has adopted rules that, among other things, prohibit an investment adviser from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for a period of up to two years after the adviser or certain of its executives or employees make a contribution to certain elected officials or candidates. If Third Point LLC, its employees or affiliates or any service providers acting on their behalf, including, without limitation, a placement agent, fail to comply with such pay-to-play laws, regulations or policies, such non-compliance could have an adverse effect on Third Point LLC and our investment portfolio. As our investment manager, Third Point LLC routinely engages in short selling for our account in managing our investments. Short sale transactions have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, including the imposition of restrictions on short selling certain securities and reporting requirements. Third Point LLC’s ability to execute a short selling strategy in managing our investment portfolio may be materially and adversely impacted by temporary or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions, and restrictions adopted in response to these adverse market events. Temporary restrictions or prohibitions on short selling activity may be imposed by regulatory authorities with little or no advance notice and may impact prior and future trading activities of our investment portfolio. Additionally, the SEC, its non-U.S. counterparts, other governmental authorities or self-regulatory organizations may at any time promulgate permanent rules or interpretations consistent with such temporary restrictions or that impose additional or different permanent or temporary limitations or prohibitions. The SEC might impose different limitations or prohibitions on short selling from those imposed by various non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These different regulations, rules or interpretations might have different effective periods. Regulatory authorities may, from time to time, impose restrictions that adversely affect our ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities may be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, Third Point LLC may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing. We may also incur additional costs in connection with short sale transactions effected in our investment portfolio, including in the event that Third Point LLC is required to enter into a borrowing arrangement for our account in advance of any short sales. Moreover, the ability to continue to borrow a security is not guaranteed and our account will be subject to strict delivery requirements. The inability to deliver securities within the required time frame may subject us to mandatory close out by the executing broker-dealer. A mandatory close out may subject us to unintended costs and losses. Certain action or inaction by third parties, such as executing broker-dealers or clearing broker-dealers, may materially impact our ability to effect short sale transactions in our investment portfolio. An increase in Third Point LLC’s assets under management may adversely affect the returns of our investment portfolio. It is possible that if the amount of assets Third Point LLC manages for us, in its funds and for other accounts it manages were to increase materially, it could be more difficult for Third Point LLC to invest profitably for those accounts because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and managing risks associated with larger positions. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will be appropriate investment opportunities to accommodate future increase in assets under management, which may force Third Point LLC to modify its investment decisions for the accounts it manages because it cannot deploy all the assets in a manner it desires. Furthermore, due to the overlap of strategies and investments across many of the portfolios managed by Third Point LLC, including its hedge funds, the accounts may be adversely affected in the event of rapid or large liquidations of investment positions held by the accounts due to a lack of liquidity resulting from large position sizes in the same investments held by the other accounts. While the hedge funds managed by Third Point LLC are currently closed for new investment subject to limited exceptions. Third Point LLC may revisit this decision based on market conditions and any increase in assets under management could adversely affect the returns of our investment portfolio. 46 Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations Any suspension or revocation of Third Point Re’s reinsurance license would materially impact our ability to do business and implement our business strategy. Our subsidiary Third Point Re is licensed as a reinsurer only in Bermuda and we do not plan to seek licenses in any other jurisdiction. The suspension or revocation of Third Point Re’s license to do business as a reinsurance company in Bermuda for any reason would mean that we would not be able to enter into any new reinsurance contracts until the suspension ended or Third Point Re became licensed in another jurisdiction. Any such suspension or revocation of our license would negatively impact our reputation in the reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we become subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than Bermuda or there is a change to Bermuda law or regulations or application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and negative impact on our business. Third Point Re, our wholly owned operating subsidiary, is a registered Bermuda Class 4 insurer. As such, it is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA require Third Point Re, among other things: •maintain a minimum level of capital, surplus and liquidity; •satisfy solvency standards; •restrict dividends and distributions; •obtain prior approval of ownership and transfer of shares; •maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda; and •provide for the performance of certain periodic examinations of Third Point Re and its financial condition.These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict our ability to write reinsurance policies, to distribute funds and to pursue our investment strategy. The process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to become licensed in a jurisdiction other than Bermuda should we choose to do so. The modification of the conduct of our business resulting from our becoming licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect our business. In addition, our inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and adversely affect our business by limiting our ability to conduct business as well as subjecting us to penalties and fines. In addition, the BMA could revoke or suspend Third Point Re’s license in certain circumstances, including circumstances in which (i) it is shown that false, misleading or inaccurate information has been supplied to the BMA by Third Point Re or on its behalf for the purposes of any provision of the Insurance Act; (ii) we have ceased to carry on business; (iii) Third Point Re has persistently failed to pay fees due under the Insurance Act; (iv) Third Point Re has been shown to have not complied with a condition attached to its registration or with a requirement made of us under the Insurance Act; (v) we are convicted of an offence against a provision of the Insurance Act; (vi) Third Point Re is, in the opinion of the BMA, found not to have been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles; or (vii) if any of the minimum criteria for registration under the Insurance Act is not or will not have been fulfilled. If the BMA suspended or revoked Third Point Re’s license we could lose our exception under the Investment Company Act. See “-We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.” We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law. The U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the “Investment Company Act”, regulates certain companies that invest in or trade securities. We rely on an exception under the Investment Company Act that is available 47 to a company organized and regulated as a foreign insurance company which is engaged primarily and predominantly in the reinsurance of risks on insurance agreements. The law in this area has not been well developed and there is a lack of guidance as to the meaning of “primarily and predominantly” under the relevant exception under the Investment Company Act. For example, there is no standard for the amount of premiums that need be written relative to the level of a company’s capital in order to qualify for the exception. If this exception were deemed inapplicable, we would have to seek to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company, which, under the Investment Company Act, would require an order from the SEC. Our inability to obtain such an order could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Assuming that we were permitted to register as an investment company, registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, our ability to raise additional debt and equity securities or issue stock options or warrants (which could impact our ability to compensate key employees), financial leverage, dividends, board of director composition and transactions with affiliates. Accordingly, if we were required to register as an investment company we would not be able to operate our business as it is currently conducted, nor would we be permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. Accordingly, we likely would not be permitted to engage Third Point LLC as our investment manager, unless we obtained board and shareholder approvals under the Investment Company Act. If Third Point LLC were not our investment manager, we may be required to liquidate our investment portfolio and we would seek to identify and retain another investment manager with a similar investment philosophy. If we could not identify or retain such an advisor, we would be required to make substantial modifications to our investment strategy. Any such changes to our investment strategy could significantly and negatively impact our investment results, financial condition and our ability to implement our business strategy. If at any time it were established that we had been operating as an investment company in violation of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, that we could be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period in which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. If, subsequently, we were not permitted or were unable to register as an investment company, it is likely that we would be forced to cease operations. To the extent that the laws and regulations change in the future so that contracts we write are deemed not to be reinsurance contracts, we will be at greater risk of not qualifying for the Investment Company Act exception. Additionally, it is possible that our classification as an investment company would result in the suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license. Insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere may review our activities and claim that we are subject to additional licensing requirements. We do not presently expect that we will be admitted to do business in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. In general, Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and the policies of the BMA are less restrictive than United States state insurance statutes and regulations. We cannot assure you that insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere will not review our activities and claim that we are subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. In addition, we will be subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit our ability to provide reinsurance. For example, our ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable regulatory bodies and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as us. If in the future we were to become subject to regulation under the laws of any state in the United States or the laws of the United States or of any other country, we may consider various alternatives to our operations. If we attempt to become licensed in another jurisdiction, for instance, we may not be able to do so and the modification of the conduct of our business or the non-compliance with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and negatively affect our business. 48 Our reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. In 2008, the BMA introduced risk-based capital standards for insurance companies as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. The amended Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations pursuant to the risk-based supervisory approach required additional filings by insurers to be made to the BMA. The required statutory capital and surplus of our Bermuda-based operating subsidiary increased under the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement model. While Third Point Re, as operating, currently has excess capital and surplus under these new requirements, there can be no assurance that such requirement or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action by regulators, including restrictions on dividend payments, limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, supervision or liquidation. Further, any changes in existing risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do. Changes in law or regulations could cause a significant and negative impact on our reinsurance business. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes have been proposed in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The extreme turmoil in the financial markets has increased the likelihood of changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated. Governmental authorities worldwide have become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. Our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that we are domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. Bermuda is a small jurisdiction and may be disadvantaged when participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading European Union countries. Because we are a Bermuda company, we are subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. In addition, we will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. As a result, the BMA has recently implemented and imposed additional requirements on the companies it regulates, such as Third Point Re, as part of its efforts to achieve equivalence under Solvency II, the EU regulatory regime which was enacted in November 2009 and which imposes new solvency and governance requirements across all EU Member States. Although Solvency II was originally supposed to have become effective by November 1, 2012, a proposed Omnibus II directive was to set revised dates for transposition and implementation of Solvency II by the EU Member States. However, there have been a series of delays in the European Parliament vote to approve the Omnibus II directive. Further delay in the implementation of Solvency II is likely, but the extent and nature of the delay is uncertain. The detail of the Solvency II project will be set out in “delegated acts” and binding technical standards which will be issued by the European Commission and will be legally binding. No official drafts for any of these measures have been released. As a result of the delay in implementation of Solvency II, it is unclear when the European Commission will take a final decision on whether or not it will recognize the solvency regime in Bermuda to be equivalent to that laid down in Solvency II. While we cannot predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulation to which we are or may become subject, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 49 Bermuda insurance laws regarding the change of control of insurance companies may limit the acquisition of our shares. Under Bermuda law, for so long as we have an insurance subsidiary registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of its common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of our common shares and direct, among other things, that such shareholder’s voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offence. This may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating IFRS to determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers. In addition, U.S. GAAP and IFRS standard setters continue to discuss possible changes to accounting for insurance contracts. Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operation. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a summary of pending changes in accounting principles or financial reporting requirements that could affect our results and disclosures.Risks Relating to Taxation In addition to the risk factors discussed below, we advise you to read “Certain Tax Considerations” and to consult your own tax advisor regarding the tax consequences to you of your investment in our shares. We may be subject to United States federal income taxation. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and we believe that our activities, as contemplated, will not cause us to be treated as engaging in a United States trade or business and will not cause us to be subject to current United States federal income taxation on our net income. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature and must be made annually, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not successfully assert that we are engaged in a trade or business in the United States or, if applicable under the income tax treaty between the U.S. and Bermuda (the “Bermuda Treaty”), engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, and thus are subject to current United States federal income taxation. If we were deemed to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States (and, if applicable under the Bermuda Treaty, were deemed to be so engaged through a permanent establishment), Third Point Re generally would become subject to United States federal income tax on its income “effectively connected” (or treated as effectively connected) with the U.S. trade or business, and would become subject to the “branch profits” tax on its earnings and profits that are both effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business and deemed repatriated out of the United States. Any such federal tax liability could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 50 United States persons who own our shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares. PFIC. Significant potential adverse United States federal income tax consequences generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a PFIC. In general, either we or Third Point Re would be a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes “passive income” or 50% or more of its assets were held to produce “passive income.” Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income but does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception for insurance companies is intended to ensure that a bona fide insurance company’s income is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. However, there is very little authority as to what constitutes the active conduct of an insurance business for purposes of the PFIC rules. The IRS has notified taxpayers in IRS Notice 2003-34 that it intends to scrutinize the activities of certain insurance companies located outside of the United States, including reinsurance companies that invest a significant portion of their assets in alternative investment strategies, to determine whether such companies qualify for the active insurance company exception in the PFIC rules. We believe that our financial reserves are consistent with industry standards and are not in excess of the reasonable needs of our insurance business, and that we are actively engaged in insurance activities that involve sufficient transfer of risk. However, we cannot assure you the IRS will agree with our position and will not successfully assert that we do not qualify for the insurance exception. Moreover, our expectation with respect to any taxable year is based on the amount of risk that we expect to underwrite during that year. If we are unable to underwrite sufficient amount of risk for any taxable year, the Company and/or Third Point Re might be treated as a PFIC. Furthermore, in certain circumstances, we may seek to manage the volatility of our reinsurance results by writing policies that contain certain contractual terms and conditions (such as loss ratio caps), which may cause the IRS to assert that such policies lack sufficient risk transfer to constitute insurance for United States federal income tax purposes, increasing the risk that the Company and/or Third Point Re may be treated as a PFIC. Counsel to the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) is not providing an opinion regarding the Group’s PFIC status due to the absence of applicable authority regarding the active insurance company exception and the dependence of the Group’s PFIC status on the actual operational results and other relevant facts for each taxable year. Prospective investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors to assess their tolerance of this risk. Recently proposed legislation (The Tax Reform Act of 2014) would modify the insurance exception to require that, for any year (1) our premiums constitute more than 50% of our gross receipts and (2) the amount of our insurance related liabilities (generally, unearned premium reserves and loss and loss adjustment expenses) constitute more than 35% of our assets. If enacted in its current form, no assurance can be given that we would be able to operate in a manner to satisfy these requirements in any given year. No assurance can be given as to whether such legislation will be adopted and if so, in what form. If a U.S. Holder (as defined below) holds our shares during any taxable year in which the Company and Third Point Re are treated as PFICs, such shares will generally be treated as stock in a PFIC for all subsequent years. Certain elections designed to mitigate the adverse consequences of owning shares in a PFIC, including a “Protective QEF Election,” may be available. If you are a United States person, we advise you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the potential tax consequences to you under the PFIC rules, the advisability of making one of these elections and to assess your tolerance of this risk.CFC. United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of the voting power of our shares, which we refer to as United States 10% shareholders, may be subject to the CFC rules. Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% shareholder must annually include its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if no distributions are made. In general (subject to the special rules applicable to “related person insurance income” described below), a foreign insurance company will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the company’s shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that the restrictions placed on the voting power of our shares should generally prevent shareholders who acquire shares from being treated as United States 10% 51 shareholders of a CFC. We cannot assure you, however, that these rules will not apply to you. If you are a United States person we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the controlled foreign corporation rules. Related Person Insurance Income. If (a) our gross income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies pursuant to which the direct or indirect insureds are our direct or indirect United States shareholders or persons related to such United States shareholders equals or exceeds 20% of our gross insurance income in any taxable year; and (b) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds own directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, a United States person who owns any shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would most likely be required to include its allocable share of our related person insurance income for the taxable year in its income, even if no distributions are made. We do not expect that it is likely that either or both of the 20% gross insurance income threshold or the 20% direct or indirect ownership threshold will be met. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a person who is a direct or indirect United States shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year. Dispositions of Our Shares. If a United States shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a CFC of which it is a United States 10% shareholder, or of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which United States persons collectively own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the company’s share capital, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the United States shareholder’s portion of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits, as the case may be, that were accumulated during the period that the United States shareholder owned the shares. In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect United States shareholder. Although not free from doubt, we believe it would be reasonable for a U.S. person to take the position that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because we should not have any United States 10% shareholders and will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations potentially applicable to such dispositions in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. United States tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A United States tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to it. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to a tax-exempt organization owning (or treated as owning) our shares if we are a CFC as discussed above and it is a United States 10% shareholder or we earn related person insurance income and the exceptions described above do not apply. We cannot assure you that United States persons holding our shares (directly or indirectly) will not be allocated subpart F insurance income. United States tax-exempt organizations should consult their own tax advisors regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income as a result of the ownership of our shares. We may become subject to U.S. withholding and information reporting requirements under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) provisions. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Code (“FATCA”) generally impose a 30% withholding tax regime with respect to (i) certain U.S. source income (including interest and dividends) and gross proceeds from any sale or other disposition after December 31, 2016, of property that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends (“withholdable payments”) and (ii) “passthru payments” (generally, withholdable payments and payments that are attributable to withholdable payments) made by foreign financial institutions (“FFIs”). As a general matter, FATCA was designed to require U.S. persons’ direct and indirect ownership of certain non-U.S. accounts and non-U.S. entities to be reported to the IRS. The application of the FATCA withholding rules will be phased in beginning July 1, 2014, with withholding on foreign passthru payments made by FFIs taking effect no earlier than 2017. On December 19, 2013, the Bermuda Government entered into a “Model 2” intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) with the United States to implement FATCA. If we and/or Third Point Re are treated as FFIs for the purposes of FATCA, under the Model 2 IGA, we and/or Third Point Re will be directed to ‘register’ with the IRS by July 1, 2014 52 and required to comply with the requirements of FATCA, including due diligence, reporting and withholding. Assuming registration and compliance with the terms of an agreement with the IRS (an “FFI Agreement”) pursuant to a Model 2 IGA, an FFI would be treated as FATCA compliant and not subject to withholding. An FFI that satisfies the eligibility, information reporting and other requirements of the IGA will not be subject to the regular FATCA reporting and withholding obligations discussed below. If the Company and/or Third Point Re are treated as FFIs for purposes of FATCA, withholdable payments and passthru payments made to the Company and/or Third Point Re will be subject to a 30% withholding tax unless an FFI Agreement is in effect, pursuant to which the Company and/or Third Point Re would be required to provide information regarding its U.S. direct or indirect owners and to comply with other reporting, verification, due diligence and other procedures established by the IRS, including a requirement to seek waivers of non-U.S. laws that would prevent the reporting of such information. The IRS may terminate the FFI Agreement if the IRS notifies the Company and/or Third Point Re that it is out of compliance with the FFI Agreement and the Company and/or Third Point Re does not remediate the compliance failure. Even if the Company and Third Point Re are subject to an FFI Agreement, distributions to an investor that are treated as passthru payments generally will be subject to a 30% withholding tax (a) if the investor fails to provide information or take other actions required for the the Company and/or Third Point Re to comply with the FFI Agreement including, in the case of a non-U.S. investor, providing information regarding certain U.S. direct and indirect owners of the investor (and, in certain circumstances, obtaining waivers of non-U.S. law to permit such reporting), or (b) if the investor is an FFI, unless the investor (i) is subject to an FFI Agreement, (ii) establishes that an exemption applies or (iii) is required to comply with FATCA under an applicable IGA. Under the regulations implementing FATCA, a foreign insurance company (or foreign holding company of an insurance company) that issues or is obligated to make payments with respect to an account is a foreign financial institution. For this purpose, insurance contracts treated as having “cash value” and annuity contracts issued or maintained by a financial institution are considered accounts, and certain term life insurance contracts are not considered accounts. Insurance companies that issue only property and casualty insurance contracts, or that only issue life insurance contracts lacking cash value (or that provide for limited cash value) generally would not be considered FFIs under the final regulations. However, a holding company may be treated as an FFI if it is formed in connection with or availed of by a collective investment vehicle, mutual fund, exchange traded fund, hedge fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any similar investment vehicle established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets. Moreover, a company may be treated as an FFI if its gross income is primarily attributable to investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets and the entity is managed by an FFI, or the entity functions or holds itself out as an investment vehicle established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets. Even if the Company and Third Point Re are not treated as FFIs, then depending on whether the shares of the Company are treated as “regularly traded on one or more more established securities markets” under the FATCA rules and whether the income and assets of Third Point Re meet the requirements for the treatment of Third Point Re as an “active NFFE,” withholdable payments to the Company and/or Third Point Re may be subject to a 30% withholding tax unless the Company and/or Third Point Re provide information regarding its U.S. direct or indirect owners. At this early stage, there can be no certainty as to whether the Company and/or Third Point Re will be subject to the requirements imposed on FFIs under FACTA. We will use reasonable efforts to avoid the imposition of a withholding tax under FACTA, which may include the entering into of an FFI Agreement. Potential additional application of the Federal Insurance Excise Tax. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2008-15, has formally announced its position that the U.S. federal insurance excise tax (the “FET”) is applicable (at a 1% rate on premiums) to all reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of risks by non‑U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers where the underlying risks are either (i) risks of a U.S. entity or individual located wholly or partly within the U.S. or (ii) risks of a non-U.S. entity or individual engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. which are located within the U.S. (“U.S. Situs Risks”), even if the FET has been paid on prior cessions of the same risks. The legal and jurisdictional basis for, and the method of enforcement of, the IRS’s position is unclear. We have not determined if the FET should be applicable with respect to risks ceded to us by, or by us to, a non-U.S. insurance company. If the FET is applicable, it should apply at a 1% rate on premium for all U.S. Situs Risks 53 ceded to us by a non-U.S. insurance company, or by us to a non-U.S. insurance company, even though the FET also applies at a 1% rate on premium ceded to us with respect to such risks. Change in United States tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us and/or United States persons who own our shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings. The tax laws and interpretations thereof regarding whether a company is engaged in a United States trade or business, is a CFC, has related party insurance income or is a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to an insurance company and the regulations regarding related party insurance income are in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. See “Certain Tax Considerations-Bermuda Tax Considerations.” Given the limited duration of the Bermuda Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause our share price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. As of February 27, 2014, we have 103,921,772 issued and outstanding common shares. A total of 22,252,206 common shares are reserved for issuance under our current share incentive plans and in connection with restricted share award agreements entered into between us and certain of our employees and directors. As of December 31, 2013, there were share options outstanding which are exercisable (subject to vesting) for 10,981,075 common shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we have reserved for issuance common shares underlying certain warrants to purchase, in the aggregate, up to 4,651,163 common shares. Approximately 103,921,772 million of our common shares are eligible for sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Such number does not give effect to options or warrants to purchase common shares. In addition, certain of our significant shareholders may distribute shares that they hold to their investors who themselves may then sell into the public market. Such sales may not be subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144A. As resale restrictions end, the market price of our common shares could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Existing holders of our common shares have registration rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other shareholders in the future. In the event that we register the common shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions contained in the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO.In the future, we may issue additional common shares or other equity or debt securities convertible into common shares in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of 54 these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our ordinary shares, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely changes their recommendation regarding our stock or our competitors’ stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it could prevent you and other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. was incorporated on October 6, 2011. On December 22, 2011, KIA TP Holdings, L.P. and KEP TP Holdings, L.P., which are affiliates of Kelso & Company (collectively, “Kelso”) and Pine Brook LVR, L.P., an affiliate of Pine Brook Road Partners, LLC (collectively, “Pine Brook”, and Pine Brook and together with Kelso, the “Lead Investors” and each individually, a “Lead Investor”), Dowling Capital Partners I, L.P., an affiliate of Dowling Capital Management, LLC (collectively, “Dowling”), P RE Opportunities Ltd. (“PROL”), Third Point LLC, Daniel S. Loeb and affiliates associated with Mr. Loeb (collectively, the “Loeb Entities”) and our chief executive officer John R. Berger (collectively, the “Founders”), together with certain members of management, committed $533.0 million to capitalize Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. As of December 31, 2013, Kelso, Pine Brook, the Loeb Entities, Dowling, PROL and Mr. Berger own approximately 25.2%, 12.6%, 5.8%, 1.5%, 5.0%, and 0.5% , of our issued and outstanding common shares, respectively on an as converted basis after giving effect to the issuance of warrants representing the right to receive 4,651,163 common shares. As a result, the Founders could exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common shares. The interests of our existing shareholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. In connection with our IPO our board of directors adopted corporate governance guidelines that, among other things, addressed potential conflicts between a director’s interests and our interests. In addition, we adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that, among other things, required our employees to avoid actions or relationships that might conflict or appear to conflict with their job responsibilities or our interests and to disclose their outside activities, financial interests or relationships that may present a possible conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict to our general counsel. These corporate governance guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with our Founders. We are an “emerging growth company,” and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting and other requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We expect to remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (a) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued 55 more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer,” which will occur at such time as we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (2) have been required to file annual, quarterly and current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for a period of at least 12 calendar months, and (3) have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Securities Act of 1934. As a result, we may qualify as an emerging growth company until as late as December 31, 2018. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common shares less attractive if we choose to rely on one or more of these exemptions or if our decision to avail ourselves of the reduced requirements may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our company. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result of our decision to utilize one or more of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Under Section 102(b) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. Pursuant to Section 107(b) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, we have irrevocably elected to “opt out” of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time-consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our share price. We are required to file annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC. We need to prepare and timely file financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, under the listing standards of the NYSE and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which impose significant compliance costs and obligations upon us. Being a public company requires a significant commitment of resources and management oversight which increases our operating costs, including as a result of our engagement of a third party to assist us in developing our internal audit function. Such requirements also place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial accounting and information systems. Other expenses associated with being a public company include auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors’ fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to: •prepare and file periodic reports, and distribute other shareholder communications, in compliance with the federal securities laws and NYSE rules; •maintain comprehensive compliance, investor relations and internal audit functions; and •evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management’s assessment thereof, in compliance with rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework, and to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 unless we choose to utilize the exemption from such attestation requirement available to “emerging growth companies.” As described above, we expect to qualify as an emerging growth company until December 31, 2018. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the 56 reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common shares. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE, or other regulatory authorities. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common shares. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our share capital for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common shares for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in our common shares will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased their shares. We may repurchase our common shares without our shareholders' consent. Under our bye-laws and subject to Bermuda law, we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell to us at fair market value the minimum number of common shares which is necessary to avoid or cure any adverse tax consequences or materially adverse legal or regulatory treatment to us, our subsidiaries or our shareholders if our board of directors reasonably determines, in good faith, that failure to exercise our option would result in such adverse consequences or treatment. Holders of our shares may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the United States. We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether: •a holder of our shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts against persons who reside in Bermuda based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws; •a holder of our shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws; •a holder of our shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers who reside outside the United States based solely upon United States federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of United States courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Because judgments of United States courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act and our bye-laws which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. 57 Interested Directors: Bermuda law provides that we cannot void any transaction we enter into in which a director has an interest, nor can such director be liable to us for any profit realized pursuant to such transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: •the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the board of directors and the board of directors had in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; •such material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction were specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or •the transaction were fair as to the corporation as of the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, the interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Business Combinations with Large Shareholders or Affiliates: As a Bermuda company, we may enter into business combinations with our large shareholders or affiliates, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or affiliate receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders, without obtaining prior approval from our board of directors or from our shareholders. If we were a Delaware corporation, we would need prior approval from our board of directors or a super-majority of our shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless we opted out of the relevant Delaware statute. Our bye-laws include a provision restricting business combinations with interested shareholders consistent with the corresponding Delaware statute. See “Description of Share Capital-Certain Bye-laws Provisions-Business Combinations.” Shareholders’ Suits: The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where an act is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, a court would consider acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors: We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors. The indemnification agreements provide that we will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors acting in their capacity as such in relation to any of our affairs for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which such person may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence.” Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably 58 believed to be in or not be opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares. In general, and except as provided under our bye-laws and as described below, the common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined pursuant to sections 957 and 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) of any United States person (that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such U.S. Person will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our board of directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares that a U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among our other shareholders whose shares were not “controlled shares” of the 9.5% U.S. Shareholder so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to become a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. We are authorized under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Any shareholder must give notice to the Company within ten days following the date it owns 9.5% of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. Our bye-laws include certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of us that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. For example, our bye-laws: •provide the right of shareholders to act by majority written consent for so long as the Lead Investors and the Loeb Entities collectively hold at least 35% of our issued and outstanding common shares;•establish a classified board of directors; •require advance notice of shareholders’ proposals in connection with annual general meetings; •authorize our board to issue “blank cheque” preferred shares; •prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common shares for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common shares unless board and shareholder approval is obtained prior to the acquisition; 59 •require that directors only be removed from office for cause by majority shareholder vote once the Lead Investors and the Loeb Entities cease to collectively hold at least 35% of our issued and outstanding shares;•provide that vacancies on the board, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; •allow each of Kelso and Pine Brook to appoint one director for so long as they hold not less than 25% of the number of shares respectively held as of December 22, 2011; •require a supermajority vote of shareholders to effect certain amendments to our memorandum of association and bye-laws; and •provide a consent right on the part of Kelso, Pine Brook and Daniel S. Loeb to any amendments to our bye-laws or memorandum of association which would have a material adverse effect on their rights for so long as they hold not less than 25% of the number of shares respectively held as of December 22, 2011. Any such provision could prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of any of these provisions could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they were viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.