D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. 8 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are a rapidly growing company, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We are a rapidly growing company. Our ability to forecast our future operating results is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, including challenges in forecasting accuracy, determining appropriate investments, market acceptance of our existing and future solutions, managing client implementations and developing new solutions. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, our business could suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and our recent growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth. Our revenue has increased substantially since our inception, but we may not be able to sustain revenue growth consistent with our recent history, or at all. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We believe growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • attract new clients, and retain and expand our relationships with existing clients; • maintain the breadth of our publisher network and attract new publishers, including publishers of web content, mobile applications, video and social games, in order to grow the volume and breadth of advertising inventory and opt-in e-mail addresses available to us; • adapt our solution to meet evolving needs of businesses, including to address market trends such as the migration of consumers from web to mobile devices; • maintain and increase our access to data necessary for the performance of the Criteo Engine; • maintain the proper functioning of the Criteo Engine as we continue to collect increasing amounts of data from our growing base of clients; • continuously improve on the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine; • continue to adapt to a changing regulatory landscape governing privacy matters; • deliver our solution through a broader spectrum of marketing channels; • introduce our solution to new geographic markets; • increase awareness of our brand on a global basis; and • attract and retain employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully accomplish any of these objectives. In addition, we also may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors. While we have been profitable in each of the last three full years, we had losses in certain quarterly periods. If we fail to achieve sufficient revenue growth to offset increased costs, we may be unable to sustain our recent growth in revenue or return to profitability in the future. 9 Table of Contents The failure by the Criteo Engine to accurately predict engagement by a user could result in significant costs to us, in lost revenue and in diminished internet display advertising inventory. The effective delivery of our solution depends on the ability of the Criteo Engine to accurately predict the likelihood that a consumer will engage with any given internet display advertisement in order for our clients to achieve desirable returns on their marketing spend. We primarily charge our clients based on a cost per click, or CPC, pricing model, and our clients only pay us when a user engages with (i.e., clicks on) the advertisement. However, we purchase advertising inventory from publishers on a cost per thousand impressions, or CPM, basis. Our agreements with clients are open-ended and often do not include a spending minimum. Similarly, our contracts with publishers generally also do not include long-term obligations requiring them to make their inventory available to us. Therefore, we need to continuously deliver satisfactory results for our advertiser clients and publishers in order to maintain and increase revenue, which in turn depends in part on the optimal functioning of the Criteo Engine. In addition, as we have increased the number of advertiser clients and publishers that use our solution on a global basis, we have experienced significant growth in the amount of data processed by the Criteo Engine and the amount of advertising impressions we deliver. As the amount of data and variables processed by the Criteo Engine increase, the calculations that the algorithms must compute become increasingly complex and the likelihood of any defects or errors increases. As a result, if we were to experience significant errors or defects in the Criteo Engine, our solution could be impaired, which could have various negative consequences, including: • a loss of advertiser clients and publishers; • lower click-through rates; • lower profitability per impression; • faulty inventory purchase decisions for which we may need to bear the cost; • lower return on marketing spend for our clients; • lower price for advertising inventory which we may be able to offer to publishers; and • delivery of advertisements that are less relevant or irrelevant to users. Furthermore, our success depends in part on our ability to continuously innovate and improve on the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine in order to deliver positive results for our advertiser clients and publishers. The failure to do so could result in delivering poor performance for our advertiser clients and a reduced ability to secure advertising inventory from publishers. If failures in the Criteo Engine or our inability to innovate and improve on the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine results in our advertiser clients and publishers ceasing to use our solution, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing clients with new clients that generate comparable revenue or departing publishers with new publishers that offer similar internet display advertising inventory and/or offer similar opt-in e-mail addresses. As a result, the failure by the Criteo Engine to accurately predict engagement by a user and continue to do so over time could result in significant costs to us, in lost revenue and in diminished internet display advertising inventory. Our ability to generate revenue depends on our collection of significant amounts of data from various sources. Our ability to optimize the delivery of internet display advertisements for our clients depends on our ability to successfully leverage data, including data that we collect from our clients as well as data provided by our publisher partners and from third parties as well as our own operating history. Using cookies and similar tracking technologies, we collect information about the interaction of users with our advertisers’ and publishers’ websites 10 Table of Contents and mobile applications (including, for example, information about the placement of advertisements and users’ shopping or other interactions with our clients’ websites or advertisements). Our ability to successfully leverage such data is dependent upon our continued ability to access and utilize such data. Our ability to access and use such data could be restricted by a number of factors, including consumer choice, restrictions imposed by advertisers and publishers, changes in technology, and new developments in laws, regulations, and industry standards. If consumer resistance to the collection and sharing of the data used to deliver targeted advertising, increased visibility of consent or “do not track” mechanisms as a result of industry regulatory and/or legal developments, and/or the development and deployment of new technologies result in a material impact on our ability to collect data, this will materially impair the results of our operations. Changes to web browsers and a number of other factors could impair our ability to collect the significant amounts of data we use to optimize display advertisements for our clients. We collect information about the interaction of users with our advertisers’ and publishers’ websites and mobile applications (including, for example, information about the placement of advertisements and users’ shopping or other interactions with our clients’ websites, mobile applications or advertisements) using cookies and similar tracking technologies. Our ability to access and use such data could be restricted by a number of factors, including consumer choice, restrictions imposed by advertisers and publishers, changes in technology, and new developments in laws, regulations and industry standards. Further, certain web browsers, such as Safari, currently block or are planning to block some or all third-party cookies by default. We have adapted our solution to enable us to continue to access data and deliver internet display advertising by using first party cookies, rather than third party cookies. Our solution requires no additional technical integration with our advertiser clients and is fully transparent to users, who receive notice and the ability to elect to deactivate Criteo services before any cookie is dropped. However there can be no assurance regulators will not challenge the transparency of the solution or web browser developers will not technically block the solution. If the roll-out of our solution is not successful, we could be prevented from serving advertisements to users that utilize web browsers that block third party cookies. If we are blocked from serving advertisements to a significant portion of internet users, our business could suffer and our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our ability to collect and use data may be restricted or prevented by a number of other factors, including: • the failure of our network or software systems, or the network or software systems of our clients; • variability in user traffic on advertiser websites or mobile applications; • decisions by some of our advertiser clients or publishers to restrict our ability to collect data from them, third parties and users or to refuse to implement mechanisms we request to ensure compliance with our legal obligations; • changes in browser or device functionality and settings, and other new technologies, which make it easier for users to prevent the placement of cookies or other tracking technology and impact our publishers’ or our advertisers’ ability to collect and use data; • decisions by consumers to opt-out of tracking or to use technology, such as browser settings, that limits our ability to collect data about users and reduces our ability to deliver relevant advertisements; • our inability to grow our advertiser and publisher base in new industry verticals and geographic markets in order to obtain the critical mass of data necessary for the Criteo Engine to perform optimally in such new industry vertical or geographic markets; • interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection, mining, analysis and storage systems; 11 Table of Contents • changes in regulation impacting the collection and use of data; and • changes in international laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards or increased enforcement of international laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards (e.g. laws in the United States., European Union, and the Asia Pacific region). Any of the above described limitations on our ability to successfully collect, utilize and leverage data could also materially impair the optimal performance of the Criteo Engine and severely limit our ability to target users for our advertisements, which would harm our business and adversely impact our future results of operations. Regulatory, legislative or self-regulatory developments regarding internet privacy matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Self-regulation and privacy regulation The regulatory environment for the collection and use of consumer data by advertising networks, advertisers, and publishers is very unsettled in Europe, the United States and internationally. The United States and foreign governments have enacted, considered or are considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict industry participants’ ability to collect, augment, analyze, use and share anonymous data, such as by regulating the level of consumer notice and consent required before a company can place cookies or other tracking technologies. A number of existing bills are pending in the U.S. Congress that contain provisions that would regulate how companies can use cookies and other tracking technologies to collect and utilize user information. On September 27, 2013, the governor of California signed into law AB 370, an amendment to the California Online Privacy Protection Act of 2003, or CalOPPA. This amendment requires that we disclose in our privacy policy how we respond to web browser “do not track” signals. Our updated privacy policy discloses that we do not respond to web browser do not track signals but that we do respond to opt-out requests made through our proprietary opt-out button or through industry opt-out platforms (namely Network Advertising Initiative and Digital Advertising Alliance). Directive 2009/136/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of November 25, 2009 amended Directive 2002/581-EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, or the E-Privacy Directive, to introduce a requirement for countries in the European Economic Area to enact specific legislation requiring companies like ours together with advertisers and publishers to present users with an information notice and obtain their consent prior to placing cookies or other tracking technologies. The amendment to the E-Privacy Directive and country- specific laws, which follow or have already followed the E-Privacy Directive may reduce the amount of data we can collect or process. As a result of these regulatory changes in Europe and related public attention, some leading browser providers have developed or are further developing browsers which reject third-party cookies as the default setting or at least make it easier for consumers to reject cookies or other similar tracking technologies. The changes in Europe following the amendment to the E-Privacy Directive have also resulted in a significant increase in publicity surrounding use of data for targeted advertising, which has heightened consumer awareness and influenced consumer sentiment. The amended E-Privacy Directive which requires advertisers or companies like ours to obtain informed consent from users for the placement of cookies or other tracking technologies and the delivery of targeted advertisements, was intended to be implemented in all thirty countries in the European Economic Area. The requirement to obtain users’ consent has been implemented differently across the European Economic Union member states. Some countries, like the UK, permit companies to imply consent from the user’s proceeding onto the website and continuing his/her navigation after s/he has been clearly informed about how cookies are used without disabling them. Other countries currently require through law and/or guidance that the user’s explicit consent must be obtained prior to the placement of cookies for targeted advertising purposes. 12 Table of Contents The position regarding explicit versus implied consent is still not fully settled within the European Economic Area, or the EU. On October 2, 2013, the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, a group with an advisory status composed inter alia of representatives of the EU data protection authorities and of the European Commission, issued a new guidance on the obtaining of consent for cookies under the E-Privacy Directive and recommended that consent be expressed by the user’s positive action or other active behavior, such as clicking on a link, image or other content, based on clear information that cookies will be set due to this action. If the trend in the EU toward an implied consent mechanism as an acceptable solution does not continue, and requirements for explicit consent mechanisms are maintained, decisions by users not to provide explicit consent could materially affect our business. In addition to explicit versus implied consent uncertainties, changes to the timing of when users receive disclosure about placement of our cookies for purposes of targeting advertising (i.e., providing pop-up or other clear notice prior to placement of the cookie) could materially affect our business. In some countries where legislation and/or regulators’ guidance had previously taken a strict explicit consent position, regulators and some legislators recently have shown more flexibility and willingness to accept an implied consent approach. Further, in guidance issued in April 2012, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés, or CNIL, the French data protection regulator, interpreted French law to require the data controller of any processing that sets cookies, or a third-party designated by the data controller, to inform the user of the purpose of the cookie (e.g., targeted advertising) and to ask if the user accepts the storage of the cookie on his/her computer prior to any processing of user data for targeted advertising purposes, among other requirements. On December 5, 2013, the CNIL clarified its former guidance. As a result of this decision, on the entry page of the website or mobile application, users must be shown a notice indicating that by proceeding onto the website and continuing his/ her navigation the user will be deemed to consent to the setting of cookies and other tracking technologies. This notice, which cannot disappear until the user has not continued his/her navigation, must indicate the purpose of the services proposed to be provided through the cookies and give access to options to object to such cookies. Consent remains valid for a maximum period of 13 months, after which consent from the users must again be sought. This is an implied consent regime through information and control. If the consent is obtained prior to the cookie being placed on a device, we would lose all first events on advertiser websites and lose all first impressions on publisher websites. Liability for non-compliance with this recommendation is shared between advertisers, publishers and networks, including us. We need the assistance of the advertisers and publishers with whom we work to ensure our mutual compliance with these rules, including to provide appropriate information and obtain the user’s consent, including explicit consent where required. If advertisers, publishers or networks on whom we rely, fail to obtain appropriate consent, we could potentially be liable under these guidelines and could suffer damages, fines and penalties and reputational harm. In 2012, CNIL commenced an inquiry into our compliance with French Data Privacy laws. While the investigation was closed in July 2014 with no compliance actions for Criteo to take, there can be no assurance that there will not be further inquiries with respect to our compliance with privacy laws from CNIL or regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions. A new regulation is being considered by European legislative bodies to replace the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive, which may include more stringent operational requirements for business processing data and may introduce significant penalties for non-compliance. The final provisions may impose requirements that materially impact our business. Similarly, considering our global presence, we may also be subject to local data protection laws in Canada, the Asia-Pacific region, South America and other regions. There is no harmonized legal approach in many of these regions and little regulatory guidance. Consequently, we could be at risk of non-compliance with applicable local privacy protection laws. In addition to compliance with government regulations, we voluntarily participate in several trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups that promulgate best practices or codes of conduct relating to 13 Table of Contents targeted advertising. For example, the Internet Advertising Bureau EU & US, the Network Advertising Initiative and the Digital Advertising Alliance, have developed and implemented guidance for companies to provide notice and choice to users regarding targeted advertising. There is ongoing debate about whether the current guidance and approaches by such associations and industry groups comply with EU law. For example, on December 28, 2011, the Article 29 Working Group published an opinion stating that the self-regulatory code was not adequate to comply with Article 5.3 of the amended E-Privacy Directive addressing placement and reading of cookies for targeted advertising. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes in ways that are inconsistent with our practices or the practices of our publishers and advertisers or in conflict with the laws and regulations of the EU, the United States or other international regulatory authorities. These existing and proposed laws, regulations and industry standards can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity and reputational harm, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, increase our risk of non-compliance and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. Privacy risks relating to our clients’ actions or inactions On behalf of certain of our clients using some of our services, we collect and store information derived from the activities of website visitors, mobile application visitors and their devices. This enables us to provide such clients with reports on information from and about the visitors to their websites or mobile applications in the manner specifically directed by each such individual client and to conduct targeted advertising. Federal, state and foreign governments and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws regarding the passive collection, use, sharing and storage of data collected from or about users or their devices. Any perception of our practices or products as an invasion of privacy, whether or not such practices or products are consistent with current or future regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, private class actions, reputational harm or claims by regulators, which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability. Our compliance with privacy laws and regulations and our reputation among the public body of website visitors or mobile application visitors depend in part on our clients’ adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with visitors’ expectations. We contractually require our clients to notify visitors to their websites or mobile applications about our services (i.e., that we place cookies and other tracking technologies and collect and share certain non-identifying data for purposes of targeting advertisements), and further require that they link to pages where visitors can opt-out of the collection or targeting. We rely on representations made to us by clients that they will comply with all applicable laws including all relevant privacy and data protection regulations. We make reasonable efforts to enforce contractual notice requirements but do not fully audit our clients’ compliance with our recommended disclosures or their adherence to privacy laws and regulations, nor do we contractually require them to seek explicit consent to the placement of cookies and other tracking technologies which may be required in certain countries. If our clients fail to adhere to our contracts in this regard, or a court or governmental agency determines that we have not adequately, accurately or completely described our own products, services and data collection, use and sharing practices in our own disclosures to consumers, or if explicit consent was required, then we, and our clients, may be subject to potentially adverse publicity, damages and related possible investigation or other regulatory activity in connection with our privacy practices or those of our clients. If we fail to access a consistent supply of internet display advertising inventory and expand our access to such inventory, our business and results of operations could be harmed. All of our revenue is derived from placing internet display advertisements on publisher websites that we do not own. As a result, we do not own or control the advertising inventory upon which our business depends. We currently access advertising inventory through various channels, including through direct relationships with publishers, advertising exchange platforms (such as DoubleClick Ad Exchange, Yahoo!’s Right Media, Facebook’s Exchange and Microsoft‘s Ad Exchange) and other platforms that aggregate the supply of 14 Table of Contents advertising inventory, such as Appnexus Inc., Admeld Inc., The Rubicon Project, Inc. and PubMatic, Inc. For example, Google Inc.’s and Appnexus Inc.’s advertising inventory represented 32% of our traffic acquisition costs in 2012, 28% of our traffic acquisition costs in 2013 and 29% of our traffic acquisition costs in 2014. Since our contracts with publishers with whom we have direct relationships generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to make their inventory available to us, our ability to continue to purchase inventory from these publishers depends in part on our ability to consistently pay sufficiently competitive CPMs for their internet display advertising inventory as well as our ability to offer advertisements from high quality companies. Similarly, as more companies compete for advertising impressions on advertising exchange platforms and other platforms that aggregate supply of advertising inventory, advertising inventory may become more expensive, which may adversely affect our ability to acquire advertising inventory and to deliver internet display advertisements on a profitable basis. Any interference with our ability to maintain access to such inventory could materially reduce the amount of advertising inventory that our solution relies on in order to deliver advertisements for our clients. In addition, since we rely on a limited number of companies for access to significant portions of advertising inventory that our business depends on, the loss of access to advertising inventory from one of those companies would negatively impact our ability to deliver internet display advertisements for our advertiser clients. Any of these consequences could therefore adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we rely on a limited number of companies that operate advertising exchange platforms and other platforms that aggregate supply of advertising inventory for access to a significant amount of the advertising inventory that our business depends on. Many widely used aggregators of advertising inventory are owned by companies that may compete with us for clients. Competitive pressure may incentivize these companies to limit our access to advertising inventory available through their platforms. If this were to occur, our ability to place advertisements would be significantly impaired and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In order to grow our publisher base, we will need to expand the breadth and quality of businesses that utilize our solution. In addition, in order to grow our advertiser base, we must expand our access to new sources of internet display advertising inventory and new sources of inventory of opt-in e-mail addresses and maintain a consistent supply of this inventory. While we have historically relied both on accessing advertising inventory through direct relationships with publishers and through advertising exchange platforms and other platforms that aggregate supply of advertising inventory and opt-in e-mail addresses, we may increasingly rely on direct relationships with publishers in order to maintain the necessary access to, and establish a greater amount of preferred access to, advertising inventory and opt-in e-mail addresses. In order to enter into or maintain such direct relationships, we may need to agree to terms that are unfavorable to us, including, for example, contractual minimums for advertising inventory and/or long-term commitments. In addition, as we attempt to improve our solution to enable businesses to place advertisements with publishers other than on the web, including mobile applications, e-mail, video and social games, we will need to develop and improve our access to publishers in those environments. Our ability to attract new publishers on the web, mobile applications, e-mail, video and social games will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will successfully grow our direct relationships with new publishers or maintain and expand our access to advertising inventory through other channels and, as a result, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, even if we do grow our direct relationships, we cannot assure you that those direct relationships with publishers will be on favorable terms to us. We have incurred net losses in certain quarterly periods as we invested in our business, and we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may have difficulty sustaining profitability. We have incurred losses in the three month periods ended June 30, 2012, December 31, 2012 and June 30, 2013 and we may incur losses in the future. While we were profitable in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014, we do not know if we will be able to maintain profitability on a continued basis. Although our revenue has increased substantially in recent periods, we may not be able to maintain this rate of revenue growth. We anticipate that our 15 Table of Contents operating expenses will continue to increase as we scale our business, invest in significantly expanding our headcount and expand our operations. In particular, we plan to continue to focus on maximizing our revenue after traffic acquisition costs on an absolute basis, or the revenue we derive after deducting the costs we incur to purchase advertising inventory, which we call revenue ex-TAC, as we believe this focus fortifies a number of our competitive strengths, including access to advertising inventory, breadth and depth of data and continuous improvement of the Criteo Engine’s performance. As part of this focus, we are continuing to invest in building relationships with direct publishers, both on their web and mobile application properties, increasing access to leading advertising exchanges, both on their web and mobile application properties, increasing access to opt-in e-mail address databases and enhancing the liquidity of our advertising inventory supply, which includes purchasing advertising inventory that may result in lower margin on an individual impression basis and may be less effective in generating clicks and driving sales for our clients. We also expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars both to support our growing operations and due to the increased costs of operating as a public company. Our ability to sustain profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to sustain profitability. Our focus on maximizing our revenue after traffic acquisition costs may result in a further decrease in our gross margin. We are focused on maximizing our revenue after traffic acquisition costs on an absolute basis, or the revenue we derive after deducting the costs we incur to purchase advertising inventory, which we call revenue ex-TAC, as we believe this focus fortifies a number of our competitive strengths, including access to advertising inventory, breadth and depth of data and continuous improvement of the Criteo Engine’s performance. As part of this focus, we are continuing to invest in building relationships with direct publishers, both on their web and mobile application properties, increasing access to leading advertising exchanges both on their web and mobile application properties, increasing access to opt-in e-mail address databases and enhancing the liquidity of our advertising inventory supply, which includes purchasing advertising inventory that may have lower margin on an individual impression basis and may be less effective in generating clicks and driving sales for our clients. In addition, we are experiencing, and expect to continue to experience, increased competition for advertising inventory purchased on a programmatic basis. Our focus on maximizing the growth of revenue ex-TAC on an absolute basis may have an adverse impact on our gross margin and we cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful or result in increased liquidity or long-term value for our shareholders. Large and established internet and technology companies may be able to significantly impair our ability to operate. Large and established internet and technology companies such as Adobe Systems Incorporated, Amazon.com, Inc., AOL, Inc., Apple Inc., eBay Inc., Facebook, Inc., Google Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo! Inc. may have the power to significantly change the very nature of the internet display advertising marketplace, and these changes could materially disadvantage us. For example, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft have substantial resources and have a significant share of widely adopted industry platforms such as web browsers, mobile operating systems and advertising exchanges and networks. Therefore, these companies could leverage their position to make changes to their web browsers, mobile operating systems, platforms, exchanges, networks or other products or services that could be significantly harmful to our business and results of operations. For example, Apple introduced its Identifier for Advertising, or IDFA, in Fall 2012, which helps us serve personalized advertisements to users in mobile applications that run on the Apple operating system. If Apple were to restrict use of the IDFA, it would impair our ability to identify users and associate particular browsing behaviors to that user. Alternative technologies such as digital fingerprinting exist that could allow us to serve personalized advertisements to users in mobile applications. However, such technologies may be less reliable or become unavailable to us in the future. If we are restricted from using IDFA and we do not have adequate technologies to substitute, we will not be able to serve personalized advertisements on mobile applications running on the Apple operating system. 16 Table of Contents The market in which we participate is intensely competitive and fragmented, and we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market for internet display advertising solutions is highly competitive and rapidly changing. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our profitability. We compete primarily in the market for internet display advertising. This market is rapidly evolving, highly competitive, complex and fragmented. We face significant competition in this market which we expect will intensify in the future. We currently compete for advertising with Alliance Data Systems Corp., Amazon, Inc., Apple Inc., eBay Inc., Facebook, Google Inc., and Yahoo! Inc. as well as smaller, privately-held companies. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry include: • ability to deliver return on marketing spend at scale; • global reach; • client trust; • breadth and depth of publisher relationships; • comprehensiveness of products and solutions; • client service; and • ease of use. In addition to competing with various companies for marketing spend, we also compete with some of them for internet display advertising inventory and some of these companies also operate their own advertising networks or exchanges from which we buy advertising inventory. Further, some of these companies that we compete with either for marketing spend and/ or advertising inventory may also be our clients or affiliated with our clients. Competitive pressure may incentivize such companies to cease to be our clients or cease to provide us with access to their advertising inventory. If this were to occur, our ability to place advertisements would be significantly impaired and our results of operations would be adversely affected. New technologies and methods of buying advertising present a dynamic competitive challenge, as market participants offer multiple new products and services, such as analytics, programmatic buying and exchanges, aimed at capturing marketing spend. In addition to existing competitors and intermediaries, we may also face competition from new companies entering the market, which may include large established companies, such as Alliance Data Systems Corp. (which recently acquired Conversant, Inc.), Adobe Systems Incorporated (which acquired both Omniture, Inc. and Efficient Frontier, Inc.), AOL Inc. (which acquired Platform-A, Inc. (advertising.com)), eBay Inc. (which acquired both Fetchback, Inc. and GSI Commerce Inc.), and Tesco plc (whose subsidiary dunnhumby acquired Sociomantic Labs), all of which currently offer, or may in the future offer, solutions that result in additional competition for marketing spend or advertising inventory. We may also face competition from companies we do not yet know about. If existing or new companies develop, market or resell competitive high-value marketing products or services, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our results of operations could be harmed. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive advertiser client bases and broader publisher relationships than we have, and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies, develop deeper advertiser client relationships or offer services at lower prices. Any of these developments would make it more difficult for us to sell our solution and could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced gross margins, increased sales and marketing expense and/or the loss of market share. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to innovate, adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, our solution may become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to continuously enhance and improve our solution to meet advertiser client needs, add functionality to our advertiser and publisher platforms and address technological advancements. If we are unable to enhance our solution to meet market demand in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain our existing clients or attract new clients. For example, as e-commerce and consumption of content continues to migrate from the web to mobile and tablet devices and advertisements more frequently include video or incorporate animation, sound and/or interactivity, which we refer to as rich media content, businesses are increasingly demanding that internet display marketing solutions extend to all three screens and support video and rich media content. In addition, as consumers spend more time watching video and playing social network games online, including within mobile applications, as opposed to browsing static webpages, businesses may increasingly shift their advertising budgets to video and game publishers and to mobile applications or, if consumers fail to engage with advertisements displayed on smaller screens, reduce their internet display marketing budgets. In order to maintain and continue to grow our revenue, we may need to continue to adapt and improve our solution to offer video and rich media content advertisements and to enable advertisers to place advertisements with publishers other than through web browsers on the desktop, smart phones and tablets, and including on mobile applications created for these devices, and develop ways to encourage engagement in these environments. In 2014, we launched our complete solution for personalized mobile advertising across all leading browsers and application platforms. This mobile solution involves delivery of display advertising to the web browsers of mobile devices, which we refer to as in-browser, as well as within mobile applications, which we refer to as in-app. To date, most of our revenue derived from delivery of display advertising on mobile devices is from in-browser advertisements. We may not be successful in generating substantial revenue from our mobile in-app solution or sustain revenue from our in-browser solution. In addition, while we have enhanced our in-browser solution to serve advertisements on iOS devices, we may not be successful in continuing scaling and expanding our iOS solution globally or at all. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new solutions to continuously meet advertiser needs or are unable to adapt our organization to market these new solutions, our solution may become less competitive or obsolete. We may not be able to integrate and roll out recently acquired technologies and products in one or more of our geographic markets, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth and business objectives. In February 2015, we acquired DataPop, Inc., or DataPop, a Los Angeles-based company specializing in connecting the products in a retailer’s catalog to actual user shopping intent. We are in the very early stages of integrating DataPop into our company. There can be no assurance that this integration will be successful or that we will be able to leverage the DataPop technology to enter into a new marketing channel in the future. In February 2014, we acquired Tedemis S.A., or Tedemis, a provider of real-time personalized marketing solutions. Tedemis product was only offered in France at the time of acquisition. In 2014, we worked on the integration of the e-mail technology onto our core platform and started to build our e-mail publisher base and to deploy our e-mail solution to our existing client base in the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and France. In each new country, we will need to build an inventory of e-mail addresses as part of any product roll-out. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring the necessary email addresses or that, if we do acquire them, our internet display advertising clients will be willing to use e-mail marketing for their products. We are still completing the integration and are in the early stages of the roll-out of our e-mail marketing product and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating and rolling out this new product globally or at all. In addition, in July 2013 we acquired Ad-X, a complementary mobile analytics and attribution technology company that allows businesses to track and optimize mobile display advertising campaigns delivered to smartphones and tablets through mobile advertising networks and other marketing solutions, but we may not be 18 Table of Contents successful in utilizing this technology to grow our business. If we are unable to successfully integrate and roll out the solutions we acquire to our advertiser clients in some or all of our markets, our solution may become less competitive which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth and business objectives. Future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Over the past two years, we have acquired DataPop, AdQuantic SAS, or AdQuantic, Tedemis and Ad-X and may seek to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies. However, we have limited experience in acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms and/or financing of the acquisition, and our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or client issues. Any acquisition or investment may require us to use significant amounts of cash, issue potentially dilutive equity securities or incur debt. In addition, acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of DataPop, Adquantic, Tedemis and Ad-X, involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of acquired businesses, especially if those businesses operate outside of our core competency; • the need to integrate operations across different geographies, cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; • ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or services; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology in order to recoup our investment; • reputation and perception risks associated with the acquired product or technology by the general public; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • litigation for activities of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, clients, former shareholders or other third parties; • costs necessary to establish and maintain effective internal controls for acquired businesses; and • increased fixed costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions or any future business, product or technology we acquire, our business and results of operations may suffer. As we expand the market for our solution, we may become more dependent on advertising agencies as intermediaries and this may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business. As we market our solution, we may increasingly need to depend on advertising agencies to work with us in assisting businesses in planning and purchasing for broader advertising objectives. However, we have limited experience in working with advertising agencies as intermediaries, as we have traditionally had direct relationships with our advertiser clients. Historically, direct relationships with our clients accounted for 78%, 70% and 69% of our revenue for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. If we have an unsuccessful engagement with 19 Table of Contents an advertising agency on a particular advertising campaign, we risk losing the ability to do work not only for the advertiser for whom the campaign was run, but also for other brands represented by that agency. Further, if our business evolves so that we are increasingly working through advertising agency intermediaries, we would have less of a direct relationship with our clients than if our clients dealt with us directly. This may drive our clients to attribute the value we provide to the advertising agency rather than to us, further limiting our ability to develop long-term relationships directly with our clients. Our clients may move from one advertising agency to another, and, accordingly, even if we have a positive relationship with an advertising agency, we may lose the underlying business when an advertiser switches to a new agency. The presence of advertising agencies as intermediaries between us and our clients thus creates a challenge to building our own brand awareness and affinity with our clients who are the ultimate sources of our revenue. Further, we may become more dependent on advertising agencies as intermediaries and this may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to expand into new marketing channels. We started delivering our solution in internet display in web browsers. Since then, we have progressively entered and expanded into additional marketing channels: internet display on social platforms, internet display on mobile applications and e-mail marketing. We define a marketing channel as a specific advertisement medium to engage with a user or a consumer for which we currently purchase inventory through a specific source. In the future, we may decide to broaden the spectrum of our marketing channels further, if we believe that doing so would significantly increase the value we can offer to clients. We believe a broader platform delivering our digital performance marketing solution through complementary marketing channels can enhance our value proposition for existing and prospective clients. However, to date, we have limited experience in entering into additional marketing channels beyond internet display in web browsers, internet display on social platforms, internet display on mobile applications and e-mail marketing, and any future attempts to enter new marketing channels may not be successful. In particular, our success in expanding into additional marketing channels will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • identify additional marketing channels where our solution could perform; • adapt our solution to additional marketing channels and effectively market it for such additional marketing channels to our existing and prospective clients; • integrate newly developed or acquired marketing channels into our pay-for-performance model, with a clear and measurable performance attribution mechanism, and in a manner that is consistent with our privacy standards; • accumulate sufficient data sets relevant for those marketing channels to ensure that the Criteo Engine has a sufficient quantity and quality of information to deliver relevant personalized advertisement through those additional marketing channels; • identify and establish acceptable business arrangements with publishers to access inventories in sufficient quality and quantity for these new marketing channels; and • hire and retain key personnel with relevant technology and product expertise to lead the integration of additional marketing channels onto our platform. If we are unable to successfully adapt our solution to additional marketing channels and effectively market such solutions to our existing and prospective clients, or if were unable to maintain our pay-for-performance model in these additional marketing channels, we may not be able to achieve our growth or business objectives. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to expand into new industry verticals. As we market our solution to a wider group of potential clients outside of our three key industry verticals of retail, travel and classifieds, including businesses in the automotive, telecommunications, consumer goods and finance industries, we will need to adapt our solution and effectively market our solution to businesses in those 20 Table of Contents industry verticals. We have limited experience in selling to businesses outside of the retail, travel and classified industries. Our success in expanding our solution to businesses in new industry verticals will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • design products and solutions that are attractive to businesses in such industries; • hire personnel with relevant industry vertical experience to lead sales and product teams; and • accumulate sufficient data sets relevant for those industry verticals to ensure that the Criteo Engine has sufficient quantity and quality of information to deliver efficient and effective internet display advertising within the relevant industry. If we are unable to successfully adapt our solution to appeal to businesses in industries other than retail, travel and classifieds, and then effectively market such solutions to businesses in such industries, we may not be able to achieve our growth or business objectives. Further, as we expand our client base and solution into new industry verticals, we may be unable to maintain our current client retention rates. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information or other intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. We rely largely on trade secret law to protect our proprietary information and technology. We generally seek to protect our proprietary information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, contractors and parties with which we do business. However, we may not be successful in executing these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our intellectual property. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Breaches of the security of our website, databases or other resources could expose us to a risk of loss of proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology or information. Moreover, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors and in these situations we may have no or limited rights to stop their use of our information. To the extent that our employees, contractors, or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights to such intellectual property. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and may have an adverse effect on our business. Although we also rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship, including software, created by us, we do not register the copyrights in any of our copyrightable works. U.S. copyrights must be registered before the copyright owner may bring an infringement suit in the United States. Furthermore, if a U.S. copyright is not registered within three months of publication of the underlying work, the copyright owner is precluded from seeking statutory damages or attorney’s fees in any U.S. enforcement action, and is limited to seeking actual damages and lost profits. Accordingly, if one of our unregistered U.S. copyrights is infringed by a third-party, we will need to register the copyright before we can file an infringement suit in the United States, and our remedies in any such infringement suit may be limited. We hold two patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and one patent issued by the French Patent Office, and have filed six non-provisional U.S. patent applications, three European applications and one Japanese application. We have also registered numerous domain names and are also pursuing the registration of trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Effective trademark, domain name and patent protection are expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights. Any of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may not provide sufficient protection for our business as currently conducted or may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, in the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our solution, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing our new brand. 21 Table of Contents Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. While we have three patents, our existing patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties, may give rise to ownership claims or to claims for the payment of additional remuneration of fair price by the persons having participated in the creation of the inventions and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection. Further, as we continue to expand our business geographically, it may become desirable for us to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional patent filings that could be expensive and time consuming. Once we file a patent application in one country, we have a limited period of time to file it in all other countries in which we want to have patent protection over a certain invention. If we fail to file in those countries we will be precluded from having patent protection for that invention in those other countries. Without patent protection, others will be free to practice that invention in those other countries. Even if we obtain patent protection, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Additionally, in the United States, the central provisions of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or AIA, became effective recently. Among other things, this law switched U.S. patent rights from the former “first-to-invent” system to a “first inventor-to-file” system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions. This may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. To protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. Litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property, or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. These claims could invalidate or narrow the scope of our own intellectual property. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology or another aspect of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The online and mobile advertising industries are characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in these industries are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Our success depends, in part, upon non-infringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. From time to time, we may be the subject of claims that our solution and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. Furthermore, as a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. 22 Table of Contents Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights could: • subject us to significant liabilities for monetary damages, which may be tripled in certain instances; • prohibit us from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our solution unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all; • subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our current or future clients, advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges or publishers; • cause delays or stoppages in providing our solution; • cause clients, potential clients, advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges or publishers to avoid working with us; • divert the attention and resources of management and technical personnel; • harm our reputation; and • require technology or branding changes to our solution that would cause us to incur substantial cost and that we may be unable to execute effectively or at all. In addition, we may be exposed to claims that the content contained in advertising campaigns violates the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. Such claims could be made directly against us or against the advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers from whom we purchase advertising inventory. Generally, under our agreements with advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers, we are required to indemnify the advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers against any such claim with respect to an advertisement we served. We generally require our clients to indemnify us for any damages from any such claims. There can be no assurance, however, that our clients will have the ability to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, and pursuing any claims for indemnification may be costly or unsuccessful. As a result, we may be required to satisfy our indemnification obligations to advertising agencies, media networks and exchanges and publishers or claims against us with our assets. This result could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves the use, transmission and storage of confidential information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages. Our business involves the storage and transmission of confidential consumer information, including certain purchaser data, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation and possible liability, as well as damage our relationships with our clients. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our data or the data of our clients or publishers, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. Any significant violations of data privacy or other security breaches could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another provider of 23 Table of Contents performance display advertising solutions, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of providers of performance display advertising solutions generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or consumers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our advertiser clients’ or publishers’ data, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and a loss of confidence in the security of our solution and ultimately harm our future business prospects. A party who is able to compromise the security of our facilities could misappropriate our proprietary information or the proprietary information of our advertiser clients and/or our publishers, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or those of our advertiser clients and/or publishers. We may be required to expend significant capital and financial resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Finally, in addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. Our business depends on our ability to maintain the quality of content of our advertiser clients and publishers. We must be able to ensure that our clients’ advertisements are not placed in publisher content that is unlawful or inappropriate. With respect to the purchase of opt-in e-mail addresses, we must ensure that the databases we partner with are reputable, keep updated e-mail address lists, honor users’ election to opt-out and obtain required and specific consent from users to receive third-party promotional e-mails. If we fail to ensure that our clients’ advertisements are not placed in unlawful or inappropriate content or we fail to source opt-in e-mail addresses from reputable partners that comply with consent requirements, our reputation and business may suffer. In particular, we could be treated as a spammer and blocked by internet service providers or regulators. In addition, if we place advertisements in content that is not permitted under the terms of the applicable agreements with a client, we may be unable to charge the client for clicks generated on those sites, the client may terminate their campaign or the client may require us to indemnify them for any resulting third party claims. Further, our publishers rely upon us not to place advertisements on their websites that are unlawful or inappropriate. If we are unable to ensure that the quality of our advertiser and publisher content does not decline as the number of advertiser clients and publishers we work with continues to grow, our reputation and business may suffer and we may not be able to retain or secure additional clients or publisher relationships. Our sales efforts with both potential advertiser clients and publishers require significant time and expense and our success will depend on effectively expanding our sales and marketing operations and activities to grow our base of advertiser clients and publishers. Attempting to increase our base of advertiser clients and publishers and achieving broader market acceptance of our solution is a key component of our growth strategy. Attracting advertiser clients and publishers, however, requires substantial time and expense, and we may not be successful in establishing these new relationships or in maintaining or advancing our existing relationships. For example, it may be difficult to identify, engage and market to potential clients that are unfamiliar with our solution, especially as they relate to their general advertising campaigns, or currently delegate advertising decisions to advertising agencies. Furthermore, many of our existing and potential clients require input from multiple internal constituencies. As a result, we must identify those involved in the purchasing decision and devote a sufficient amount of time to presenting our solution to those individuals, including providing demonstrations and comparisons against other available solutions, which can be a costly and time-consuming process. Our ability to grow our advertiser and publisher base will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing and publisher support operations and activities. We expect to be increasingly dependent on our direct sales force and publisher support teams to attract new advertiser clients and publishers 24 Table of Contents and we intend to continue to expand these teams internationally. In addition, as we target new industry verticals, we will need to attract sophisticated sales and publisher support personnel that are familiar with the relevant industry and geographic market. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Therefore, our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales and publisher support personnel with relevant industry knowledge. New hires require significant training before they achieve full productivity. Newly hired advertiser sales and publisher development personnel may not become productive as quickly as we would like, or at all, thus representing increased operating costs and lost opportunities which in turn would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Therefore, if we are not successful in recruiting and training our advertiser sales and publisher development personnel and streamlining our sales and business development processes with advertiser clients and publishers to cost-effectively grow our advertiser and publisher base, our ability to grow our business and our results of operation could be adversely affected. If our implementation cycles are long, we may allocate resources to an advertiser without any guarantee of near-term revenue generation. Implementing our solution with clients generally requires clients to integrate software code on their website to enable us to gather and import data regarding consumer behavior on their website into our systems and inform the algorithms underlying the Criteo Engine. This implementation process can be complex and time-consuming for an advertiser and can result in delays in the deployment and use of our solution after an advertiser has signed up to utilize it. Depending upon the time and resources that an advertiser is willing to devote to the integration of our solution with their website and the nature and complexity of an advertiser’s network and systems, the actual testing and implementation of our solution may occur some period of time after an advertiser has signed up to use our solution. As a result, the possibly lengthy implementation cycle may result in difficulty in predicting our future results of operations. Failures in our systems and infrastructure supporting our solution could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose clients. In addition to the optimal performance of the Criteo Engine, our business relies on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our software and hardware infrastructures. We currently place over two billion advertisements per day and each of those advertisements can be placed in under 150 milliseconds. Sustained or repeated system failures of our software and hardware infrastructures, which interrupt our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately, our ability to serve and track advertisements and our ability to process consumers’ responses to those advertisements, could significantly reduce the attractiveness of our solution to advertiser clients and publishers, reduce our revenue and impair our reputation. In addition, while we seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new client deployments and the expansion of existing client deployments, we may need to increase data center hosting capacity, bandwidth, storage, power or other elements of our system architecture and our infrastructure as our client base continues to grow, and our existing systems may not be able to scale up in a manner satisfactory to our existing or prospective clients. Our failure to continuously upgrade or increase the reliability and redundancy of our infrastructure to meet the demands of a growing base of global advertiser clients and publishers could adversely affect the functioning and performance of our solution and could in turn affect our results of operations. Finally, our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, some of which are outside of our control, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Any steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems supporting our solution may be expensive and may not be successful in preventing system failures. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of advertiser and publisher satisfaction. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which have created, and may continue to create, challenges to the quality of our service to our advertiser clients and publishers, and which have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. For example, the number of clients from which we collect revenue has increased from under 350 located in eight countries as of January 1, 2010 to over 7,000, located in over 69 countries, as of December 31, 2014. While our client count has increased over time, this metric can also fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal trends in advertising spend of our clients and timing and amount of revenue contribution from new clients. Therefore, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between a change in clients in a particular period and an increase or decrease in our revenue. Part of the challenge that we expect to face in the course of our continued expansion is to maintain a high level of service and advertiser and publisher satisfaction. To the extent our advertiser and publisher base grows, we will need to expand our account management and other personnel, in order to continue to provide personalized account management and services. We will therefore require significant expenses and capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to maintain the quality of our client service that has been central to our growth so far, especially as we continue to seek to attract larger advertiser clients and publishers. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth in a manner that preserves our attention to our clients, our brand and reputation may suffer which would in turn impair our ability to attract and retain advertiser clients and publishers. We expect to continue to expand our international operations into other countries in the future. As such, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we expand our managerial, operational, research and development, marketing and sales, administrative, financial and other functions in order to support our expanding business. Furthermore, our rapid international expansion and the expanding geographical diversity of our workforce has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on the corporate culture of rapid innovation and teamwork that has been central to our growth so far. If we are unable to successfully manage growth in employee headcount and function and our geographical expansion, our results of operations could suffer. If we fail to enhance our brand cost-effectively, our ability to expand our client base will be impaired and our financial condition may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Criteo brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing solution and future solutions, such as mobile solutions and solutions directed toward capturing broader advertising budgets, and is an important element in attracting new advertiser clients and publishers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to deliver valuable solutions for our advertiser clients and publishers. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expenses. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new advertiser clients or publishers or retain our existing advertiser clients or publishers and our business could suffer. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You 26 Table of Contents should not rely on our past results as indicative of our future performance. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of the ADSs could decline substantially. We plan to continue to substantially increase our investment in research and development, product development and sales and marketing, as we seek to continue to expand into new marketing channels (e.g. mobile applications and mobile), geographically and to new industry verticals to capitalize on what we see as a growing global opportunity for our solution. We also expect that our general and administrative expense will increase both to support our growing operations and due to the increased costs of operating as a public company. For the foregoing reasons or other reasons we may not anticipate, historical patterns should not be considered indicative of our future quarterly results of operations. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results of operations include the following: • the nature of our clients’ products or services; • demand for our solution and the size, scope and timing of advertising campaigns; • the lack of long-term agreements with our advertiser clients and publishers; • advertiser and publisher renewal rates; • market acceptance of our solution and future products and services in current industry verticals and in new industry verticals; • market acceptance of our solution and future products and services in new geographic markets; • the timing of large expenditures related to expansion into new geographic markets and/or new industry verticals; • the timing of adding support for new devices, platforms and operating systems; • the amount of inventory purchased through direct relationships with publishers versus internet advertising exchanges or networks; • our clients’ budgeting cycles; • our ability to timely collect amounts owed to us by our clients; • changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors; • the response of consumers to our clients’ advertisements and to online marketing in general; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • network outages, errors in our solution or security breaches and any associated expense and collateral effects; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as some of our foreign sales and costs are denominated in their local currencies; • failure to successfully manage any acquisitions; and • general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets. As a result, we have a limited ability to forecast the amount of future revenue and expense, and our results of operations may from time to time fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 27 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in advertising activity could adversely affect our cash flows. Our cash flows from operations could vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our clients’ spending. For example, in particular in the online retail industry, many businesses devote the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year, to coincide with increased holiday spending by consumers. Conversely, our e-commerce retail and travel clients typically conduct fewer advertising campaigns in the second quarter than they do in other quarters. To date, these seasonal effects have been masked by our rapid revenue growth. However, if and to the extent that seasonal fluctuations become more pronounced, our operating cash flows could fluctuate materially from period to period as a result. In periods of economic uncertainty, businesses may delay or reduce their spending on advertising, which could materially harm our business. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced significant instability in recent years, especially in the European Union where we generated 63.5%, 53.5% and 49.2% of our revenue for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. These conditions make it difficult for our clients and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our clients to reduce or delay their advertising spend with us. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. In downturns our revenue can be adversely affected as businesses may curtail spending on advertising in general and on a solution such as ours. Any macroeconomic deterioration in the future, especially further deterioration in the European Union, could impair our revenue and results of operations. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the market for internet display advertising solutions and the market for performance internet display advertising will experience growth or that we will experience growth. Furthermore, we generally sell through insertion orders with our clients. These insertion orders generally do not include long-term obligations and are cancelable upon short notice and without penalty. Any reduction in advertising spending could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from e-commerce businesses, especially in the retail, travel and classified industries, and downturn in these industries or any changes in regulations affecting these industries could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from e-commerce businesses in the retail, travel and classifieds industries. For example, in 2012, 2013 and 2014, 66.0%, 62.4% and 66.3%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from advertisements placed for retail e-commerce businesses. While we expect to grow our advertiser base in additional industries, such as automotive, telecommunications, consumer goods and finance, any downturn in any of our core industries, or other industries we may target in the future, may cause our clients to reduce their spending with us, delay or cancel their advertising campaigns with us. Furthermore, our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws by federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies which would impose taxes on goods and services provided over the internet. To the extent such taxes discourage the use of the internet as a means of commercial marketing or reduce the amount of products and services offered through e-commerce websites, online advertising spending may decline and the use or attractiveness of our solution by our clients or potential clients may be adversely affected. Interruptions or delays in services provided by third-party providers that we rely upon could impair the performance of our solution and harm our business. We currently lease space from third-party data center hosting facilities for our servers located in California, New York, France, Japan, Hong Kong and The Netherlands. All of our data gathering and analytics are conducted on, and the advertisements we deliver are processed through, our servers located in these facilities. We also rely on bandwidth providers and internet service providers to deliver advertisements. Any damage to, or 28 Table of Contents failure of, the systems or facilities of our third-party providers could adversely impact our ability to deliver our solution to clients. If, for any reason, our arrangement with one or more data centers is terminated, we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close any data center or the facilities of any other third-party provider without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our solution. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, our testing in actual disasters or similar events is limited. If any such event were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our international operations and expansion expose us to several risks. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, revenue generated outside of France was 81.9%, 86.5% and 88.3% of our revenue, respectively, based on the location of where the respective advertising campaign was delivered. Our primary research and development operations are located in France and the United States. In addition, we currently have international offices outside of France and the United States, which focus primarily on selling and implementing our solution in those regions. In the future, we may expand to other international locations. Our current international operations and future initiatives involve a variety of risks, including: • localization of our solution, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • different labor regulations, especially in the European Union, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; • exposure to many onerous and potentially inconsistent data protections laws; • more stringent regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in the European Union; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • challenges inherent to efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls, including restrictions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other similar trade protection regulations and measures in the United States or in other jurisdictions; • reduced ability to timely collect amounts owed to us by our clients in countries where our recourse may be more limited; • limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations derived from one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; • exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and • restrictions on repatriation of earnings. 29 Table of Contents We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our solution outside of France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States and Japan. Our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will suffer. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions as a result of new taxes and new laws, including sales taxes, which may negatively affect our business. As a multinational organization, operating in multiple jurisdictions such as France, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, as internet commerce and globalization continue to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to digital advertising. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our clients in the form of increased fees, which may negatively affect our business. Finally, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional taxes, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We incur portions of our expenses and derive revenues in currencies other than the euro. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign exchange risk exposure also arises from intra-company transactions and financing with subsidiaries that have a functional currency different than the euro. Therefore, for example, an increase in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar could be expected to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings growth as U.S. dollar revenue and earnings, if any, would be translated into euros at a reduced value. Before December 2013, we did not engage in hedging transactions to protect Criteo’s sales, expenses and other balance sheet items from the impact of uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the euro. While we are now engaging in hedging transactions to minimize the impact of uncertainty in future exchange rates on intra-company transactions and financing, we may not hedge all of our foreign currency exchange rate risk. In addition, hedging transactions carry their own risks, including the possibility of a default by the counterparty to the hedge transaction. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents Our revenue would decline if we fail to gather sufficient data in a particular geographical market and effectively coordinate the demand for and supply of advertising inventory. The performance of the Criteo Engine in a particular geographical market depends on having sufficient advertiser clients and publishers in that market utilizing our solution and our ability to coordinate the demand for and supply of advertising inventory in that market. Since we cannot consistently predict the demand for advertising inventory by our clients and the advertising inventory being made available to us, including on a priority basis, the demand for and supply of advertising inventory in that market may not be sufficient or sufficiently coordinated for the Criteo Engine to function optimally. As such, as we target new geographic markets, we will need to adequately coordinate the timing for local advertiser clients and publishers to use our solution. A failure to effectively manage demand for and the supply of advertising inventory processed through the Criteo Engine could impair its ability to accurately predict user engagement in that market, which could result in: • a reduction in the amount of inventory our publishers make available to us in the future; • a loss of existing advertiser clients or publishers; • an adverse effect on our ability to attract new publishers willing to give us preferred access; • harm to our reputation; • increased cost; and • lost revenue. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, or attract additional sales and technology talent, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management team. Our management team is currently spread across multiple physical locations and geographies, which can strain the organization and make coordinated management more challenging. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly employees with technical skills that enable us to deliver effective advertising solutions, and sales and advertiser and publisher support representatives with experience in digital advertising. Competition for these employees in our industry is intense. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain these management, technical, sales and advertiser and publisher support personnel who are critical to our success, resulting in harm to our key advertiser and publisher relationships, loss of key information, expertise or proprietary knowledge and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. Our inability to use software licensed from third parties, or our use of open source software under license terms that interfere with our proprietary rights, could disrupt our business. Our technology platform incorporates software licensed from third parties, including some software, known as open source software, which we use without charge. Although we monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our solution to our clients. In the future, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solution, which licenses may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Alternatively, we may need to re-engineer our solution or discontinue use of portions of the functionality provided by our solution. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop using such software to others on unfavorable license terms such as by precluding us from charging license fees or by requiring us to disclose our source code. Our inability to use third-party software could result in disruptions to our business, or delays in the development of future offerings or enhancements of our existing platform, which could impair our business. 31 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain certain tax benefits applicable to French technology companies may adversely affect our results of operations. As a French technology company, we have benefited from certain tax advantages, including, for example, the French research tax credit (crédit d’impôt recherche), or CIR. The CIR is a French tax credit aimed at stimulating research and development. The CIR can be offset against French corporate income tax due and the portion in excess (if any) may be refunded at the end of a three fiscal-year period. The CIR is calculated based on our claimed amount of eligible research and development expenditures in France and represented €2.4 million, €1.9 million and €3.8 million for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The French tax authority with the assistance of the Research and Technology Ministry may audit each research and development program in respect of which a CIR benefit has been claimed and assess whether such program qualifies in their view for the CIR benefit. If the French tax authority determines that our research and development programs do not meet the requirements for the CIR benefit, we could be liable for additional corporate tax, and penalties and interest related thereto, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations and future cash flows. For example, in 2011, we underwent a tax inspection by the French tax authorities covering fiscal years 2008 and 2009, which resulted in a reassessment of €0.5 million for the two years. Further, we had another inspection related to fiscal years 2010 and 2011 with the French tax authorities, which resulted in a non-significant reassessment of less than €50,000 for the two years. The French tax authorities may challenge our eligibility for, or our calculation of, certain tax reductions and/or deductions in respect of our research and development activities and, should the French tax authorities be successful, we may be liable for additional corporate income tax, and penalties and interest related thereto, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations and future cash flows. Furthermore, if the French Parliament decides to eliminate, or reduce the scope or the rate of, the CIR benefit, either of which it could decide to do at any time, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Transfer pricing rules may adversely affect our corporate income tax expense. Many of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s length pricing principles. Contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The tax authorities in these jurisdictions could challenge whether our related party transfer pricing policies are at arm’s length and, as a consequence, the tax treatment of corresponding expenses and income. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these tax authorities were successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, we may be liable for additional corporate income tax, and penalties and interest related thereto, which may have a significant impact on our results of operations and future cash flows. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares and the ADSs and the Trading of the ADSs The market price for the ADSs may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of the ADSs has fluctuated, and is likely to continue to fluctuate, substantially. The trading price of the ADSs depends on a number of factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Since the ADSs were sold at our initial public offering in November 2013 at a price of $31.00 per share, the price per ADS has ranged as low as $25.16 and as high as $60.95 through March 19, 2015. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other results of operations; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; 32 Table of Contents • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us and our securities, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of online marketing or other technology companies, or those in our industry in particular; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business. Share ownership remains concentrated in the hands of our principal shareholders and management, who continue to be able to exercise a direct or indirect influence on us. As of January 31, 2015, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater shareholders and affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 40% of our ordinary shares outstanding. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, may have influence over matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other shareholders may view as beneficial. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for the ADSs depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades the ADSs or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, or downgrades the ADSs, demand for the ADSs could decrease, which could cause the price of the ADSs or trading volume to decline. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our securities and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the ADSs. In addition, French law may limit the amount of dividends we are able to distribute. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your ADSs for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in ADSs will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. Consequently, investors may need to sell all or part of their holdings of ADSs after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. There is no guarantee that the ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased the ADSs. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase the ADSs. 33 Table of Contents Further, under French law, the determination of whether we have been sufficiently profitable to pay dividends is made on the basis of our statutory financial statements prepared and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in France, or French GAAP. In addition, payment of dividends may subject us to additional taxes under French law. Therefore, we may be more restricted in our ability to declare dividends than companies not based in France. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may affect the amount of euros that we are able to distribute, and the amount in U.S. dollars that our shareholders receive upon the payment of cash dividends or other distributions we declare and pay in euros, if any. These factors could harm the value of the ADSs, and, in turn, the U.S. dollar proceeds that holders receive from the sale of the ADSs. We may need additional capital in the future to meet our financial obligations and to pursue our business objectives. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, which could compromise our ability to meet our financial obligations and grow our business. While we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future or to finance acquisitions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our marketing and sales and research and development efforts, increase working capital, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or adequately respond to competitive pressures which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to shareholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit facilities, our ability to use such facilities for capital expenditures and information technology-related expenses may be restricted. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or development of new technologies. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, shareholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our ordinary shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our shareholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of the ADSs and diluting their interest. Future sales of shares of the ADSs by existing shareholders could depress the market price of the ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of the ADSs in the public market the trading price of the ADSs could decline significantly. In addition, the sale of these securities could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. As of January 31, 2015, we had 61,009,571 outstanding ordinary shares, which are all eligible for sale in the public market, subject to applicable securities restrictions. As of January 31, 2015, approximately 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares are held by directors and executive officers and continue to be subject to resale limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, as of January 31, 2015, option and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,586,488 ordinary shares issued under our equity incentive plans were exercisable, subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act in the case of our affiliates. Sales of ADSs by existing shareholders in the public market, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities or the perception that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. 34 Table of Contents Our by-laws and French corporate law contain provisions that may delay or discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our by-laws and the corporate laws of France, the country in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, provisions of our by-laws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions include the following: • our ordinary shares are in registered form only and we must be notified of any transfer of our shares in order for such transfer to be validly registered; • under French law, a non-resident of France may have to file an administrative notice with French authorities in connection with a direct or indirect investment in us, as defined by administrative rulings; • the provisions of French law allowing the owner of 95% of the share capital or voting rights of a public company to force out the minority shareholders following a tender offer made to all shareholders are only applicable to companies listed on a stock exchange of the European Union and will therefore not be applicable to us; • a merger (i.e., in a French law context, a stock-for-stock exchange following which our company would be dissolved into the acquiring entity and our shareholders would become shareholders of the acquiring entity) of our company into a company incorporated in the European Union would require the approval of our board of directors as well as a two-thirds majority of the votes held by the shareholders present, represented by proxy or voting by mail at the relevant meeting; • a merger of our company into a company incorporated outside of the European Union would require 100% of our shareholders to approve it; • under French law, a cash merger is treated as a share purchase and would require the consent of each participating shareholder; • our shareholders have granted and may grant in the future our board of directors broad authorizations to increase our share capital or to issue additional ordinary shares or other securities (for example, warrants) to our shareholders, the public or qualified investors, including as a possible defense following the launching of a tender offer for our shares; • our shareholders have preferential subscription rights on a pro rata basis on the issuance by us of any additional securities for cash or a set-off of cash debts, which rights may only be waived by the extraordinary general meeting (by a two-thirds majority vote) of our shareholders or on an individual basis by each shareholder; • our board of directors has the right to appoint directors to fill a vacancy created by the resignation or death of a director, subject to the approval by the shareholders of such appointment at the next shareholders’ meeting, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our board of directors can only be convened by our chairman or our managing director, if any, or, when no board meeting has been held for more than two consecutive months, by directors representing at least one third of the total number of directors; • our board of directors meetings can only be regularly held if at least half of the directors attend either physically or by way of videoconference or teleconference enabling the directors’ identification and ensuring their effective participation in the board’s decisions; • approval of at least a majority of the votes held by shareholders present, represented by a proxy, or voting by mail at the relevant ordinary shareholders’ general meeting is required to remove directors with or without cause; 35 Table of Contents • advance notice is required for nominations to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at a shareholders’ meeting, except that a vote to remove and replace a director can be proposed at any shareholders’ meeting without notice; and • pursuant to French law, the sections of the by-laws relating to the number of directors and election and removal of a director from office may only be modified by a resolution adopted by 66 2/3% of the votes of our shareholders present, represented by a proxy or voting by mail at the meeting. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our ordinary shares, the depositary will fix a record date for the determination of ADS holders who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights. Upon timely receipt of notice from us, if we so request, the depositary shall distribute to the holders as of the record date (1) the notice of the meeting or solicitation of consent or proxy sent by us and (2) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. You may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot guarantee you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares or to withdraw your ordinary shares so that you can vote them yourself. If the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions from you, it may give a proxy to a person designated by us to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future preferential subscription rights or to elect to receive dividends in shares may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. According to French Law, if we issue additional securities for cash, current shareholders will have preferential subscription rights for these securities on a pro rata basis unless they waive those rights at an extraordinary meeting of our shareholders (by a two-thirds majority vote) or individually by each shareholder. However, the ADS holders in the United States will not be entitled to exercise or sell such rights unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. Further, if we offer holders of our ordinary shares the option to receive dividends in either cash or shares, under the deposit agreement the depositary may require satisfactory assurances from us that extending the offer to holders of ADSs does not require registration of any securities under the Securities Act before making the option available to holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings or to elect to receive dividends in shares and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 36 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs and the withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares. Your ADSs, which may be evidenced by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason subject to your right to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares. Temporary delays in the cancellation of your ADSs and withdrawal of the underlying ordinary shares may arise because the depositary has closed its transfer books or we have closed our transfer books, the transfer of ordinary shares is blocked to permit voting at a shareholders’ meeting or we are paying a dividend on our ordinary shares. In addition, you may not be able to cancel your ADSs and withdraw the underlying ordinary shares when you owe money for fees, taxes and similar charges and when it is necessary to prohibit withdrawals in order to comply with any laws or governmental regulations that apply to ADSs or to the withdrawal of ordinary shares or other deposited securities. If we fail to establish or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of the ADSs may, therefore, be adversely impacted. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. In addition, we are required to submit a report by management to the audit committee and external auditors on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of the ADSs may be adversely impacted, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly if we cease to be a foreign private issuer at some point in the future. The Exchange Act requires that, as a public company, we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business, financial condition and result of operations. However, while we expect to continue to submit quarterly interim consolidated financial data to the SEC under cover of the SEC’s Form 6-K, as a foreign private issuer, we are not required to file quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to establish and maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and results of 37 Table of Contents operations. Although we already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements in connection with our initial public offering, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our cost and expense. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. As a public company that is subject to these rules and regulations, we may find that it is more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. As a result of disclosure of information in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and in other filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a U.S. company; our ordinary shares are not listed, and we do not intend to list our shares, on any market in France, our home country. This may limit the information available to holders of the ordinary shares. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as defined in the SEC’s rules and regulations and, consequently, we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to public companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act, including the U.S. proxy rules under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, while we expect to submit quarterly interim consolidated financial data to the SEC under cover of the SEC’s Form 6-K, we will not be required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. public companies and will not be required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act. Furthermore, our ordinary shares are not listed and we do not currently intend to list our ordinary shares on any market in France, our home country. As a result, we are not subject to the reporting and other requirements of listed companies in France. For instance, we are not required to publish quarterly or semi-annual financial statements. Accordingly, there will be less publicly available information concerning our company than there would be if we were a U.S. public company. 38 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to adopt certain home country practices in relation to corporate governance matters that differ significantly from Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards. These practices may afford less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with corporate governance listing standards. As a foreign private issuer listed on Nasdaq, we are subject to its corporate governance listing standards. However, rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in France, which is our home country, may differ significantly from corporate governance listing standards. For example, neither the corporate laws of France nor our by-laws require a majority of our directors to be independent and we could include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and nomination and corporate governance committee, and our independent directors would not necessarily hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Currently, we intend to continue to comply with the corporate governance listing standards of Nasdaq to the extent possible under French law. However, if we choose to change such practice to follow home country practice in the future, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would have under corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional cost and expense. While we currently qualify as a foreign private issuer, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on June 30, 2015. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if we to fail to meet the requirements necessary to maintain our foreign private issuer status as of the relevant determination date. For example, if more than 50% of our securities are held by U.S. residents and more than 50% of our executive officers or members of our board of directors are residents or citizens of the United States, we could lose our foreign private issuer status. As of January 31, 2015, based on the information available to us, approximately 67% of our outstanding ordinary shares were held in the United States. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than costs we incur as a foreign private issuer. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive in certain respects than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would be required under current SEC rules to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, rather than IFRS, which will involve significant time and cost. This migration from IFRS to U.S. GAAP would require us to present our financial information in U.S. dollars instead of euros as well, which would involve a significant change in the way our financial information is prepared and presented. Additionally, this migration from IFRS to U.S. GAAP may involve revisions to our accounting for and presentation of historical transactions which may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers such as the ones described above and exemptions from procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against our company and directors and senior management. Two of our directors and certain members of senior management, and those of certain of our subsidiaries, are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or us in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them or us based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities 39 Table of Contents law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the United States. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. In particular, there is some doubt as to whether French courts would recognize and enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in France. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered but is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in France will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. The United States and France do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. The rights of shareholders in companies subject to French corporate law differ in material respects from the rights of shareholders of corporations incorporated in the United States. We are a French company with limited liability. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by the laws governing companies incorporated in France. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors are in many ways different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. For example, in the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by French law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, rather than solely our shareholders and/or creditors. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a shareholder. See the sections of this Annual Report on Form 20-F titled “Item 10. B—Memorandum and Articles of Association” and “Item 16.G—Corporate Governance.” 40 Table of Contents 