ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our BusinessEconomic recessions or downturns could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary or leisure spending by our members and guests and such spending can be particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. The recession led to slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, which negatively affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, December 25, 2012, December 27, 2011, December 28, 2010 and December 29, 2009, we experienced annualized attrition (i.e., members who resign) in membership count of 16.3%, 16.4%, 15.9%, 17.2%, and 17.0%, respectively, in our golf and country clubs and 22.8%, 22.9%, 23.5%, 24.2%, and 27.1%, respectively, in our business, sports and alumni clubs. A renewed economic downturn in the United States may lead to increases in unemployment and loss of consumer confidence which would likely translate into resignations of existing members, a decrease in the rate of new memberships and reduced spending by our members. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a renewed economic downturn.Our businesses will remain susceptible to future economic recessions or downturns, and any significant adverse shift in general economic conditions, whether local, regional, national or global, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During such periods of adverse economic conditions, we may be unable to increase membership dues or the price of our products and services and experience increased rates of resignations of existing members, a decrease in the rate of new member enrollment or reduced spending by our members, any of which may result in, among other things, decreased revenues and financial losses. In addition, during periods of adverse economic conditions, we may have difficulty accessing financial markets or face increased funding costs, which could make it more difficult or impossible for us to obtain funding for additional investments and harm our results of operations.We may not be able to attract and retain club members, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain members at our clubs and maintain or increase usage of our facilities. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, particularly those affecting the popularity of golf and private dining, and other social and demographic trends could adversely affect our business. Historically, we have experienced varying levels of membership enrollment and attrition rates and, in certain areas, decreased levels of usage of our facilities. Significant periods where attrition rates exceed enrollment rates or where facilities usage is below historical levels would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, 46.0% of our total operating revenues came from recurring membership dues. For the same period on an annualized basis, 22.8% of our business, sports and alumni club memberships (approximately 14,200 memberships), and 16.3% of our golf and country club memberships (approximately 13,500 memberships) were resigned. After the addition of new memberships, we experienced a net (loss) gain in memberships of (1.0)% in our business, sports and alumni clubs and 3.2% in our golf and country clubs. If we cannot attract new members or retain our existing members, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.16Changes in consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary expenditures for leisure, recreation and travel, are susceptible to factors beyond our control that may reduce demand for our products and services.Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary expenditures for leisure, recreation and travel, are particularly susceptible to factors beyond our control that may reduce demand for our products and services, including demand for memberships, golf, vacation and business travel and food and beverage sales. These factors include:•low consumer confidence;•depressed housing prices;•changes in the desirability of particular locations, residential neighborhoods, office space or travel patterns of members;•decreased corporate budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business (e.g., industry conventions);•natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires and floods;•outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as avian or swine flu;•war, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; and•the financial condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its impact on travel.These factors and other global, national and regional conditions can adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual properties, particular regions or our business as a whole. For example, during the recession, many businesses dramatically decreased the number of corporate events and meetings hosted at facilities such as convention centers, hotels, business clubs, golf clubs, resorts and retreats in an effort to cut costs and in response to public opinion relating to excess corporate spending, which negatively impacted the amount of business for such facilities, including certain of our facilities. Any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce demand or the rates our clubs are able to charge for memberships or services, which could harm our business and results of operations.Unusual weather patterns and extreme weather events, as well as periodic and quasi-periodic weather patterns, such as those commonly associated with the El Niño/La Niña-Southern Oscillation, could adversely affect the value of our golf courses or negatively impact our business and results of operations.Our operations and results are susceptible to non-seasonal and severe weather patterns. Extreme weather events or patterns in a given region, such as heavy rains, prolonged snow accumulations, extended heat waves and high winds, could reduce our revenues for that region by interrupting activities at affected properties which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.One factor that specifically affects our real estate investments in golf courses is the availability of water. Turf grass conditions must be satisfactory to attract play on our golf courses, which requires significant amounts of water. Our ability to irrigate a golf course could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage, such as the recent drought affecting the southern and western United States and associated government imposed water restrictions. A severe drought of extensive duration experienced in regard to a large number of properties could adversely affect our business and results of operations.We also have a high concentration of golf clubs in Texas, California and Florida, which can experience periods of unusually hot, cold, dry or rainy weather due to a variety of periodic and quasi-periodic global climate phenomenon, such as the El Niño/La Niña-Southern Oscillation. For example, during 2011, we incurred $0.4 million, or 10.0%, higher golf course maintenance utility expenses for the fiscal period starting on June 15, 2011 and ending on September 6, 2011 compared to the corresponding fiscal period in 2010, due primarily to unusually hot and severe drought conditions in certain portions of the southern United States. If these phenomenon and their impacts on weather patterns persist for extended periods of time, our business and results of operations could be harmed.17We could be required to make material cash outlays in future periods if the number of initiation deposit refund requests we receive materially increases or if we are required to surrender unclaimed initiation deposits to state authorities under applicable escheatment laws.At a majority of our private clubs, members are expected to pay an initiation fee or deposit upon their acceptance as a member to the club. Initiation fees, which are more typical for our business clubs and mid-market golf and country clubs, are generally nonrefundable. In contrast to initiation fees, initiation deposits, which are typical in our more prestigious golf and country clubs, paid by members upon joining one of our clubs are fully refundable after a fixed number of years, typically 30 years, and upon the occurrence of other contract-specific conditions. Historically, only a small percentage of initiation deposits eligible to be refunded have been requested by members. As of December 31, 2013, the amount of initiation deposits that are eligible to be refunded currently within the next 12 months is $112.2 million on a gross basis. When refunds are requested, we must fund the payment of such amounts from our available cash. If the number of refunds dramatically increases in the future, our financial condition could suffer and the funding requirement for such refunds could strain our cash on hand or otherwise force us to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate planned dividend payments, sell assets or operations or seek additional capital in order to raise the cash necessary to make such refunds. As of December 31, 2013, the discounted value of initiation deposits that may be refunded in future years (not including the next 12 months) is $204.2 million. For more information on our initiation deposit amounts, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”.While we will make a refund to any member whose initiation deposit is eligible to be refunded, we may be subject to various states’ escheatment laws with respect to initiation deposits that have not been refunded to members. All states have escheatment laws and generally require companies to remit to the state cash in an amount equal to unclaimed and abandoned property after a specified period of dormancy, which is typically 3 to 5 years. We currently do not remit to states any amounts relating to initiation deposits that are eligible to be refunded to members based upon our interpretation of the applicability of such laws to initiation deposits. The analysis of the potential application of escheatment laws to our initiation deposits is complex, involving an analysis of constitutional and statutory provisions and contractual and factual issues. While we do not believe that initiation deposits must be escheated, we may be forced to remit such amounts if we are challenged and fail to prevail in our position.In addition, most of the states in which we conduct business have hired third-party auditors to conduct unclaimed and abandoned property audits of our operations. Certain categories of property, such as uncashed payroll checks or uncashed vendor payments, are escheatable in the ordinary course of business and we have entered into closing agreements with the majority of the states regarding the escheatment of cash amounts for such categories and have remitted these amounts to the respective states; however, the audits have not been terminated. We have communicated with several states represented by such auditors, who have sought additional information related to initiation deposits eligible to be refunded to members located in their respective states. If a state were to initiate legal proceedings under its applicable laws in order to have us remit initiation deposits eligible to be refunded to certain members that have not been previously refunded to such members during the state's dormancy period, we expect to vigorously defend our position on the matter. However, if we are ultimately unsuccessful in arguing our right to continue holding such amounts, we may be forced to pay such amounts to the claiming state(s). While we believe we have strong arguments against any potential claims for the escheatment of unclaimed initiation deposits made under state escheatment laws, if a material portion of the initiation deposits otherwise eligible to be refunded were awarded to any state(s), our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and we may be required to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate planned dividend payments, sell assets or operations or seek additional capital in order to raise the corresponding cash required to satisfy such awards. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet such obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements.Our ability to attract and retain members depends heavily on successfully locating our clubs in suitable locations, and any impairment of a club location, including any decrease in member or customer traffic, could impact our results of operations.Our approach to identifying clubs in suitable locations typically favors locations where our facilities are or can become a part of the community. As a result, our clubs are typically located near urban and residential centers that we believe are consistent with our members’ lifestyle choices. Memberships and sales at these locations are derived, in part, from proximity to key local landmarks, business centers, facilities and residential areas. We may be forced to close clubs or club locations may become unsuitable due to, and such clubs’ results of operations may be harmed by, among other things:•economic downturns in a particular area;•competition from nearby recreational or entertainment venues;18•changing demographics in a particular market or area;•changing lifestyle choices of consumers in a particular market; and•the closing or declining popularity of other businesses and entertainment venues located near our clubs.For example, in December 2010, we terminated our lease agreement and discontinued operations of the Renaissance Club, a business club in Detroit, Michigan, a city particularly hard hit by the recession. Changes in areas around our club locations could render such locations unsuitable and cause memberships at such clubs to decline, which would harm our results of operations.We have significant operations concentrated in certain geographic areas, and any disruption in the operations of our clubs in any of these areas could harm our results of operations.As of December 31, 2013, we operated multiple clubs in several metropolitan areas, including fifteen in and around Dallas, Texas, twelve near Houston, Texas, eight in the greater Los Angeles, California region, four near Sacramento, California, four in and around Phoenix, Arizona, eight in the greater Atlanta, Georgia region, five in the Raleigh/Durham area and five in the Austin, Texas area. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our clubs in any of these markets, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures or destruction or damage to the clubs as a result of a natural disaster, fire or any other reason, could harm our results of operations or may result in club closures. In addition, some of the metropolitan areas where we operate clubs have been disproportionately affected by the recession and the decline in home prices and increase in foreclosure rates, and could continue to be disproportionately affected by a renewed economic downturn. Concentration in these markets increases our exposure to adverse developments related to competition, as well as economic and demographic changes in these areas.Seasonality may adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our quarterly results fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Usage of our golf and country club facilities declines significantly during the first and fourth quarters, when colder temperatures and shorter days reduce the demand for outdoor activities. Our business clubs typically generate a greater share of their annual revenues in the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday and year-end party season. In addition, the first, second and third fiscal quarters each consist of 12 weeks, whereas the fourth quarter consists of 16 or 17 weeks. As a result of these factors, we usually generate a disproportionate share of our revenues and cash flows in the second, third and fourth quarters of each year and have lower revenues and cash flows in the first quarter. This seasonality means our business and results of operations are disproportionately vulnerable to the occurrence of other risks during the periods of increased member usage due to the larger percentage of revenues we generate during such times.Competition in the industry in which we compete could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We operate in a highly competitive industry, and compete primarily on the basis of reputation, featured facilities, location, quality and breadth of member product offerings and price. As a result, competition for market share in the industry in which we compete is significant. In order to succeed, we must take market share from local and regional competitors and sustain our membership base in the face of increasing recreational alternatives available to our existing and prospective members.Our business clubs compete on a local and regional level with restaurants and other business and social clubs. The number and variety of competitors in this business varies based on the location and setting of each facility, with some situated in intensely competitive upscale urban areas characterized by frequent innovations in the products and services offered by competing restaurants and other business, dining and social clubs. In addition, in most regions, these businesses are in constant flux as new restaurants and other social and meeting venues open or expand their amenities. As a result of these characteristics, the supply in a given region often exceeds the demand for such facilities, and any increase in the number or quality of restaurants and other social and meeting venues, or the products and services they provide, in a given region could significantly impact the ability of our clubs to attract and retain members, which could harm our business and results of operations.Our golf and country club facilities compete on a local and regional level with other country clubs and golf facilities. The level of competition in the golf and country club facility business varies from region to region and is subject to change as existing facilities are renovated or new facilities are developed. An increase in the number or quality of similar clubs and other facilities in a particular region could significantly increase competition, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.19Our results of operations also could be affected by a number of additional competitive factors, including the availability of, and demand for, alternative venues for recreational pursuits, such as multi-use sports and athletic centers. In addition, member-owned and individual privately-owned clubs may be able to create a perception of exclusivity that we have difficulty replicating given the diversity of our portfolio and the scope of our holdings. To the extent these alternatives succeed in diverting actual or prospective members away from our facilities or affect our membership rates, our business and results of operations could be harmed.Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and key employees.The loss of the services of our senior management could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. We also may be unable to retain existing management and key employees, including club managers, membership sales and support personnel, which could result in harm to our member and employee relationships, loss of expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. In addition, we have not obtained key man life insurance policies for any of our senior management team. As a result, it may be difficult to cover the financial loss if we were to lose the services of any members of our senior management team. The loss of members of our senior management team or key employees could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our large workforce subjects us to risks associated with increases in the cost of labor as a result of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates and required wage increases and health benefit coverage, lawsuits or labor union activity.Labor is our primary property‑level operating expense. As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 12,800 hourly-wage and salaried employees at our clubs and corporate offices. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, labor-related expense accounted for 50.1% of our total operating expense. We may face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates, or increases in the federal or state minimum wage or other employee benefit costs. For example, we are continuing to assess the impact of federal health care reform law and regulations on our health care benefit costs, which will likely increase the amount of healthcare expenses paid by us. If labor-related expenses increase, our operating expense could increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various federal and state laws governing such matters as minimum wage requirements, overtime compensation and other working conditions, citizenship requirements, discrimination and family and medical leave. In recent years, a number of companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, overtime wage policies, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits may be threatened or instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.From time to time, we have also experienced attempts to unionize certain of our non-union employees. While these efforts have achieved only limited success to date, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union activity in the future. In addition, future legislation could amend the National Labor Relations Act to make it easier for unions to organize and obtain collectively bargained benefits, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.Increases in our cost of goods, rent, water, utilities and taxes could reduce our operating margins and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may not be directly offset by increased revenue. Our most significant operating costs, other than labor, are our cost of goods, water, utilities, rent and property taxes. Many, and in some cases all, of the factors affecting these costs are beyond our control.Our cost of goods such as food and beverage costs account for a significant portion of our total property‑level operating expense. Cost of goods represented 14.6% of our total operating expense for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. While we have not experienced material increases in the cost of goods, if our cost of goods increased significantly and we are not able to pass along those increased costs to our members in the form of higher prices or otherwise, our operating margins would suffer, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.20In addition, rent accounts for a significant portion of our property‑level operating expense. Rent expense represented 4.4% of our total operating expense for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. Significant increases in our rent costs would increase our operating expense and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.Utility costs, including water, represented 5.3% of our total operating expense for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. The prices of utilities are volatile, and shortages sometimes occur. In particular, municipalities are increasingly placing restrictions on the use of water for golf course irrigation and increasing the cost of water. Significant increases in the cost of our utilities, or any shortages, could interrupt or curtail our operations and lower our operating margins, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Each of our properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we paid approximately $16.4 million in property taxes. The real and personal property taxes on our properties may increase or decrease as tax rates change and as our clubs are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If real and personal property taxes increase, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer.We have concentrated our investments in golf-related and business real estate and facilities, which are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that the values of our investments may decline if there is a prolonged downturn in real estate values.Our operations consist almost entirely of golf-related and business club facilities that encompass a large amount of real estate holdings. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with holding real estate investments. A prolonged decline in the popularity of golf-related or business club services, such as private dining, could adversely affect the value of our real estate holdings and could make it difficult to sell facilities or businesses.Our real estate holdings (including our long-term leaseholds) are subject to risks typically associated with investments in real estate. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned, expenses incurred and capital appreciation generated by the related properties. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, real estate, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and time-consuming to expand, modify or renovate older properties. Under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The illiquidity of real estate may make it difficult for us to dispose of one or more of our properties or negatively affect our ability to profitably sell such properties.We may from time to time decide to dispose of one or more of our real estate assets. Because real estate holdings generally, and clubs like ours in particular, are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to dispose of one or more real estate assets on a timely basis. In some circumstances, sales may result in investment losses which could adversely affect our financial condition. The illiquidity of our real estate assets could mean that we continue to operate a facility that management has identified for disposition. Failure to dispose of a real estate asset in a timely fashion, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in the economy, our industry or our business and prevent us from meeting our indebtedness obligations.As of December 31, 2013, we were significantly leveraged and our total debt balance was approximately $649.7 million. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences for our investors, including the following:•it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;•a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, strategic initiatives, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other business opportunities;•the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;21•certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the secured credit facilities entered into on November 30, 2010, as amended (the “Secured Credit Facilities”), are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates;•it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or our ability to adjust to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and•we may be vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate planned dividend payments, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of the requisite operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture that governs the 10% Senior Notes due December 1, 2018 (the “Senior Notes”) issued by our subsidiary ClubCorp Club Operations, Inc. restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:•our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;•the lenders under the Secured Credit Facilities could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and•we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.While the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes limit, but do not fully prohibit us from doing so, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2013, $120.5 million was available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility under the Secured Credit Facilities. The credit agreement governing the Secured Credit Facilities also allows for additional capacity of $75.0 million in revolving credit and term loan capacity combined and additional capacity for incremental revolving credit and/or term loan commitments thereafter if certain covenants are met. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations.The Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock;•make investments;•create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us;22•sell stock of our subsidiaries;•transfer or sell assets;•create liens;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into mergers or consolidations.In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Secured Credit Facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet them. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Secured Credit Facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Secured Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the Secured Credit Facilities. If the lenders under the Secured Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the holders of the Senior Notes could declare a cross-default, and we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient assets to repay the Secured Credit Facilities, the Senior Notes, and our other indebtedness, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us.Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under the Secured Credit Facilities, are subject to variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. As of December 31, 2013, the interest rate on the term loan facility under the Secured Credit Facilities was the higher of (i) 4.0% (“Floor”) and (ii) an elected LIBOR plus a margin of 3.0% (less the impact of an interest rate cap agreement that limits our exposure on the elected LIBOR to 2.0% on a notional amount of $155.0 million). This term loan facility is effectively subject to the Floor until LIBOR exceeds 1.0%. As of December 31, 2013, LIBOR was below1.0%, such that a hypothetical 0.5% increase in LIBOR applicable to this term loan facility would not result in an increase in interest expense.Timing, budgeting and other risks could delay our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate the properties that we own, or make these activities more expensive, which could reduce our profits or impair our ability to compete effectively.We must regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate the properties that we own in order to remain competitive, pursue our business strategies, maintain and build the value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we must periodically upgrade or replace the furniture, fixtures and equipment necessary to operate our business. These efforts are subject to a number of risks, including:•construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials) that may increase project costs;•obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations;•governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development;•force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes or floods;•design defects that could increase costs; and•environmental concerns which may create delays or increase costs.These projects create an ongoing need for cash, which if not generated by operations or otherwise obtained is subject to the availability of credit in the capital markets. Our ability to spend the money necessary to maintain the quality of our properties is significantly impacted by the cost and availability of capital, over which we have little control.23The timing of capital improvements can affect property performance, including membership sales, retention and usage, particularly if we need to close golf courses or a significant number of other facilities, such as ballrooms, meeting spaces or dining areas. Moreover, the investments that we make may fail to improve the performance of the properties in the manner that we expect.If we are not able to begin operating properties as scheduled, or if investments harm or fail to improve our performance, our ability to compete effectively would be diminished and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances; and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful or divert our management’s attention.We continually evaluate opportunities to expand our business through strategic and complementary acquisitions of attractive properties. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Acquisitions or investments in businesses, properties or assets as well as alliances with third parties are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to:•spending cash, incurring debt, or issuing equity;•assuming contingent liabilities;•creating additional expenses; or•use of management’s time and attention.We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or that the ability to obtain financing will not be restricted by the terms of the Secured Credit Facilities, the indenture governing the Senior Notes or other indebtedness we may incur.The success of any such acquisitions or investments will also depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. We may experience difficulty with integrating acquired businesses, properties or other assets, including difficulties relating to:•geographic diversity;•integrating information technology systems; and•retaining members.We depend on third parties in our joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, which may limit our ability to manage risk.As of December 31, 2013, we owned eight properties in partnership with other entities, including joint ventures relating to six of our golf facilities, one of our business clubs and certain realty interests which we define as “Non-Core Development Entities”, and may in the future enter into further joint ventures or other collaborative arrangements related to additional properties. Our investments in these joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not otherwise present in our business, including the risk that our partner may become bankrupt, the risk that we may not be able to sell or dispose of our interest as a result of buy/sell rights that may be imposed by the joint venture agreement, the risk that our partner may have economic or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals and the risk that our partner may be able to veto actions which may be in our best interests. Consequently, actions by a partner might subject clubs owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Additionally, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our partners, or our partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on the joint venture or its results of operations, and subsequently on our business or results of operations.24Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims and we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance.We maintain insurance of the type and in amounts that we believe is commercially reasonable and that is available to businesses in our industry. We carry commercial liability, fire, flood, earthquake, catastrophic wind and extended insurance coverage, as applicable, from solvent insurance carriers on all of our properties. We believe that the policy specifications and insured limits are adequate for foreseeable losses with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary for similar properties and that all of our existing golf and business clubs are insured within industry standards. Nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we can obtain in the future or restrict our ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any deductible and/or self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks.In the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations or the replacement cost of any lost investment. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. Additionally, we could remain obligated for performance guarantees in favor of third-party property owners or for their debt or other financial obligations and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover awards of damages resulting from our liabilities. If the insurance that we carry does not sufficiently cover damages or other losses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.In addition, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. For example, we maintain business interruption insurance, but there can be no assurance that the coverage for a severe or prolonged business interruption at one or more of our clubs would be adequate. Moreover, we believe that insurance covering liability for violations of wage and hour laws is generally not available. These losses, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Accidents or injuries in our clubs or in connection with our operations may subject us to liability, and accidents or injuries could negatively impact our reputation and attendance, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries at our properties or in connection with our operations, including injuries from premises liabilities such as slips, trips and falls. If accidents or injuries occur at any of our properties, we may be held liable for costs related to the injuries. We maintain insurance of the type and in the amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to businesses in our industry, but there can be no assurance that our liability insurance will be adequate or available at all times and in all circumstances. There can also be no assurance that the liability insurance we have carried in the past was adequate or available to cover any liability related to previous incidents. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed to the extent claims and associated expenses resulting from accidents or injuries exceed our insurance recoveries.Adverse litigation judgments or settlements could impair our financial condition and results of operations or limit our ability to operate our business.In the normal course of our business, we are often involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including current or former members, guests who use our properties, our employees or regulators. Any significant adverse litigation judgments or settlements could limit our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.25The failure to comply with regulations relating to public facilities or the failure to retain licenses relating to our properties may harm our business and results of operations.Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our clubs are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, environmental hazards and food safety. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our clubs to obtain licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. The failure of a club to obtain or retain its licenses and permits would adversely affect that club’s operations and profitability. We may also be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Even though we are covered by general liability insurance, a settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop lawsuit in excess of liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations.We are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (the “ADA”), which, among other things, may require certain renovations to our facilities to comply with access and use requirements. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA or any other similar law or regulation could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. While we believe we are operating in substantial compliance, and will continue to remove architectural barriers in our facilities when readily achievable, in accordance with current applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our expenses for compliance with these laws and regulations will not increase significantly and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Businesses operating in the private club industry are also subject to numerous other federal, state and local governmental regulations related to building and zoning requirements and the use and operation of clubs, including changes to building codes and fire and life safety codes, which can affect our ability to obtain and maintain licenses relating to our business and properties. If we were required to make substantial modifications at our clubs to comply with these regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our operations and our ownership of property subject us to environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.Our properties and operations are subject to a number of environmental laws. As a result, we may be required to incur costs to comply with the requirements of these laws, such as those relating to water resources, discharges to air, water and land; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the cleanup of properties affected by regulated materials. Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases from current or formerly owned or operated facilities. Environmental laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the relevant entity knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. We use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under such laws, and we from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses of certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Our club facilities are also subject to risks associated with mold, asbestos and other indoor building contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use, transfer or obtain financing regarding our property. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements.In addition, some projects to improve, upgrade or expand our golf clubs may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act and, for projects in California, the California Environmental Quality Act. Both acts require that a specified government agency study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include in its analysis various alternatives. Our improvement proposals may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project.Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may harm our business, investments and results of operations.We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, state and local governments. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have an adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations.26Failure to comply with privacy regulations or maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions or harm to our reputation or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.Certain information relating to our members and guests, including personally identifiable information and credit card numbers, is collected and maintained for a period of time for various business purposes, including maintaining records of member preferences to enhance our customer service and for billing, marketing and promotional purposes. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and company data is critical to our business. Our members expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulations applicable to security and privacy are increasingly demanding, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions where we operate. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions (within or outside the United States) may subject us to inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs or adversely impact our ability to service our members and guests and market our properties and services to our members and guests. A theft, loss, misappropriation, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data, including cyber attacks, could harm our reputation, result in loss of members or business disruption or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Any of these matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.The operation of our business relies on technology, and operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in losses or limit our growth.We invest in and license technology and systems for property management, procurement, membership records and specialty programs. We believe that we have designed, purchased and installed appropriate information systems to support our business. There can be no assurance, however, that our information systems and technology will continue to be able to accommodate our requirements and growth, or that the cost of maintaining such systems will not increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate our requirements and growth, or an increase in costs related to maintaining and developing such information systems, including associated labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, there can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required that we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and timeframes. In addition, we rely on third‑party service providers for certain aspects of our business. Additionally, while we have cyber security procedures in place, a security breach could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on us. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of our information systems could impair the quality of our operations and could impact our reputation and hence adversely affect our business and limit our ability to grow.We may be required to write-off a portion of our goodwill, indefinite lived intangible asset, and/or long-lived asset balances as a result of a prolonged and severe economic recession.Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), we are required to test goodwill, and indefinite lived intangible assets annually as well as on an interim basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. GAAP also requires that we test long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. Our evaluation of the recoverability of goodwill includes analysis of the discounted future free cash flows that a reporting unit is expected to generate and an analysis, which is based upon a comparison of reporting units to similar companies utilizing a purchase multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We evaluate the recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets using the relief from royalty method which estimates our theoretical royalty savings from ownership of the intangible asset. Our evaluation of the recoverability of long-lived assets includes comparison of the future undiscounted cash flows of an asset group over our expected holding period to the carrying value of the long-lived assets of an asset group. If the recoverability test is not met, we compare the carrying value of the property to its fair value, which may result in an impairment. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”. If a severe prolonged economic downturn were to occur, it could cause less than expected growth or a reduction in terminal values of our assets and could result in a goodwill, indefinite lived intangible asset, or long-lived asset impairment charge negatively impacting our results of operations.We are subject to tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. An adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the IRS or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions and may be subject to similar examinations in the future. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can 27require considerable estimates and judgments. Intercompany transactions associated with provision of services and cost sharing arrangements, as well as those associated with the ClubCorp Formation from November 30, 2010 (as defined in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—ClubCorp Formation”), are complex and affect our tax liabilities. We are currently undergoing an IRS audit of certain components of the tax return for the year ended December 28, 2010, which includes the consummation of the ClubCorp Formation. In addition, certain of our foreign subsidiaries are under audit in Mexico for the 2008 and 2009 tax years and have received notification of assessments by the Mexican taxing authorities related to two of these foreign subsidiaries which we are protesting. It is likely that within the next 12 months our unrecognized tax benefits will be adjusted to reflect the resolution of some or all of the matters currently under audit by the U.S. and Mexican taxing authorities. However, as audit outcomes and the timing of audit resolutions are subject to significant uncertainty, we are unable to reasonably estimate the possible amount of change in the unrecognized tax benefits, if any, that may occur within the next 12 months. A difference in the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties from what is currently estimated could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.The cancellation of certain indebtedness in connection with the ClubCorp Formation resulted in cancellation of indebtedness income to us. Should the estimates and judgments used in our calculation of such cancellation of indebtedness income prove to be inaccurate, our financial results could be materially affected.Cancellation of debt income occurred for U.S. federal income tax purposes in connection with the consummation of the ClubCorp Formation due to the forgiveness of $342.3 million of debt owed under the then existing secured credit facilities. We took the position that substantially all of such income was not includible in our taxable income under Section 108 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). We are currently undergoing an IRS audit of certain components of the tax return for the year ended December 28, 2010, which includes the consummation of the ClubCorp Formation. The calculation of the amount of cancellation of indebtedness income recognized in connection with the ClubCorp Formation is complex and involves significant judgments and interpretations on our part, including the value of any assets at such time. Should the estimates and judgments used in our calculation of cancellation of indebtedness income prove unsustainable, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Risks Relating to Our Capital StructureWe are controlled by affiliates of KSL, whose interests may be different than the interests of other investors.As of December 31, 2013, affiliates of KSL beneficially owned approximately 64% of our common stock. As a result, affiliates of KSL have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby may be able to indirectly control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence or modification of debt by us, amendments to our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In addition, KSL’s affiliates may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, KSL’s affiliates could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or cause us to sell revenue-generating assets.KSL is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, including investments in the leisure and hospitality industries.Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that none of KSL’s affiliates or any director who is not employed by us will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. KSL’s affiliates also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as affiliates of KSL continue to own a significant amount of our combined voting power, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. So long as KSL’s affiliates collectively own at least 5% of all outstanding shares of our stock they will be able to nominate individuals to our Board of Directors pursuant to our amended and restated articles of incorporation. In addition, KSL’s affiliates will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.28Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.The sale of additional shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.Shares held by affiliates of KSL and certain of our directors, officers and employees are “restricted securities” as defined by Rule 144 of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”) and subject to certain restrictions on resale. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered under the Securities Act or are sold pursuant to an exemption from registration such as Rule 144.As of December 31, 2013, shares covered by registration rights represent approximately 64% of our outstanding common stock. Registration of any of these outstanding shares of common stock would result in such shares becoming freely tradable without compliance with Rule 144 upon effectiveness of the registration statement.As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities.In addition, the shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under the ClubCorp Holdings, Inc. 2012 Stock Award Plan, which was amended and restated August 14, 2013 (the “Stock Plan”) will become eligible for sale in the public market once those shares are issued, subject to provisions relating to various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements and Rule 144, as applicable. A total of 4,000,000 shares of common stock has been reserved for issuance under theStock Plan.In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in dilution to you.Our amended and restated articles of incorporation designate the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County, Nevada, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, and therefore limit our stockholders’ ability to choose a forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County, Nevada shall be the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought in the name or right of the corporation or on its behalf, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to the corporation or any of our stockholders, (iii) any action arising or asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of Chapters 78 or 92A of the NRS or any provision of the corporation’s articles of incorporation or bylaws, (iv) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the corporation’s articles of incorporation or bylaws or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation further provide that any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provision.We believe the choice-of-forum provision in our amended and restated articles of incorporation will help provide for the orderly, efficient and cost-effective resolution of Nevada-law issues affecting us by designating courts located in the State of Nevada (ClubCorp’s state of incorporation) as the exclusive forum for cases involving such issues. However, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it believes to be favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, employees and agents. While there is no Nevada case law addressing the enforceability of this type of provision, Nevada courts have on prior occasion found persuasive authority in Delaware case law in the absence of Nevada statutory or case law specifically addressing an issue of corporate law. The Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware ruled in June 2013 that choice-of-forum provisions of a type similar to those included in our amended and restated articles of incorporation are not facially invalid under corporate law and constitute valid and enforceable contractual forum selection clauses. However, if a court were to find the choice-of-forum provision in our amended and restated articles of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, 29one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our stock price may change significantly, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. The stock market recently has experienced extreme volatility. This volatility often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:•results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;•results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts and investors;•declines in the market prices of stocks generally;•strategic actions by us or our competitors;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, other strategic relationships or capital commitments;•changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets;•changes in business or regulatory conditions;•future sales of our common stock or other securities;•investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;•the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;•announcements relating to litigation or regulatory investigations or actions;•guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance;•the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;•changes in accounting principles; and•other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events.These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the trading volume of our common stock is low.In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.30We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare and pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.On December 10, 2013, our Board of Directors adopted a policy to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend on our Common Stock, at an annual rate of $0.48 per share, subject to quarterly declaration, commencing in the first calendar quarter of 2014. The payment of such quarterly dividends and any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and is subject to our compliance with applicable law, and depending on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, level of indebtedness, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, restrictions in our debt agreements and in any preferred stock, business prospects and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence paying dividends. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment in ClubCorp. This appreciation may not occur and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock or our sector, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business or industry. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or industry, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest, including attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. These provisions provide, among other things:•a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms;•the ability of our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could have the effect of impeding the success of an attempt to acquire us or otherwise effect a change of control;•advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at stockholder meetings;•the right of KSL’s affiliates, determined in proportion to their collective ownership of our common stock, to nominate at least a certain percentage of the members of our Board of Directors;•certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings and stockholder action by written consent;•that, except in limited circumstances specified in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, if KSL’s affiliates own less than 40% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, then certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders (which must include at least one of certain specified affiliates of KSL, so long as affiliates of KSL beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 5% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors) of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on such amendment; and•that if KSL’s affiliates own less than 40% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, then our stockholders may adopt amendments to our amended and restated bylaws only by the affirmative vote of the holders (which must include at least one of certain specified KSL’s affiliates, so long as KSL’s affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 5% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors) of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on such amendment.31These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) rules and the rules of the SEC. As a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies.As of December 31, 2013, affiliates of KSL continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of our Board of Directors consist of “independent directors” as defined under the rules of the NYSE;•the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities;•the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and•the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees.We utilize certain of these exemptions. As a result, we will not have a majority of independent directors, our nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee will not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees may not be subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (“JOBS”) Act and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements and exemptions applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, including, among other things:•exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;•reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements;•exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and•exemption from any rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.We will be an emerging growth company until December 25, 2018, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more, (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three‑year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.As described above, if we continue to qualify as an emerging growth company, we need not comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 for several years. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered 32public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and that management expend time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline.When the available exemptions under the JOBS Act, as described above, cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with the various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of or timing of additional costs we may incur as a result of these reporting requirements.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.