D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Maintaining the trusted status of our ecosystem is critical to our success, and any failure to do so could severely damage our reputation and brand, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have established a strong brand name and reputation for our ecosystem in China. Any loss of trust in our ecosystem or platform could harm the value of our brand and result in buyers and sellers ceasing to transact business on our marketplaces as well as participants reducing the level of their commercial activity in our ecosystem, which could materially reduce our revenue and profitability. Our ability to maintain our position as a trusted platform for online and mobile commerce is based in large part upon: • the reliability and security of our platform; • the quality and functionality of products and the wide range of services and functions we make available to participants on our platform; • the rules governing our marketplaces; • the quality and breadth of products and services offered by sellers through our marketplaces; • the strength of our consumer protection measures; and • our ability to provide reliable and trusted payment and escrow services through our arrangements with Alipay. We may not be able to maintain and improve the network effects of our ecosystem, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. Our ability to maintain a healthy and vibrant ecosystem that creates strong network effects between buyers, sellers and other participants is critical to our success. The extent to which we are able to maintain and strengthen these network effects depends on our ability to: • offer a secure and open platform for all participants; • provide tools and services that meet the evolving needs of buyers and sellers; • provide a wide range of high-quality product and service offerings to buyers; 7 Table of Contents • provide sellers with a high level of traffic flow with strong commercial intent and effective online marketing services; • enhance the attractiveness of our mobile platform; • arrange secure and trusted payment settlement and escrow services; • coordinate fulfillment and delivery services with third-party logistics and delivery companies; • attract and retain third party service providers who are able to provide quality services on commercially reasonable terms to our sellers; • maintain the quality of our customer service; and • continue adapting to the changing demands of the market. In addition, changes we may make to enhance and improve our ecosystem and balance the needs and interests of the various participants on our ecosystem may be viewed positively from one participant group's perspective (such as buyers) but may have negative effects from another group's perspective (such as sellers). If we fail to balance the interests of all participants in our ecosystem, fewer buyers, sellers and other participants may visit our marketplaces, or they may conduct fewer transactions or use alternative platforms, any of which could result in a material decrease in our revenue and net income. Our operating philosophy and interest in maintaining the health of our ecosystem may negatively influence our short-term financial performance. Consistent with our operating philosophy and focus on the long-term interests of our ecosystem participants, we may take actions that fail to generate short-term financial results, and we cannot assure you that these actions will produce long-term benefits. For example, we share a significant portion of the revenue generated from our network of third-party marketing partners, or the Taobao Affiliate Network, with such marketing partners. In addition, our efforts relating to our mobile platform have emphasized expanding our user base and enhancing user experience, rather than prioritizing monetization of user traffic on our mobile platform. We also make investments in new products, services and business initiatives that may not provide economic benefits to us in the short-term or at all. User behavior on mobile devices is rapidly evolving, and if we fail to successfully adapt to these changes, our competitiveness and market position may suffer. Buyers, sellers and other participants are increasingly using mobile devices in China for a wide range of purposes, including for e-commerce. While a significant and growing portion of participants access our platforms through mobile devices, this area is relatively new and developing rapidly and we may not be able to continue to increase the level of mobile access to and engagement on our marketplaces. The variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. Our ability to successfully expand the use of mobile devices to access our platform is affected by the following factors: • our ability to continue to provide compelling commerce platforms and tools in a multi-device environment; • the quality of our mobile offerings, or mobile-based payment services provided by Alipay; • our ability to successfully deploy apps on popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as iOS and Android; • our ability to adapt to the device standards used by third-party manufacturers and distributors; and • the attractiveness of alternative platforms. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract significant numbers of new mobile buyers and increase levels of mobile engagement, our ability to maintain or grow our business would be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully monetize traffic on our mobile platform, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increasing percentage of our users are accessing our marketplaces through mobile devices, a trend that we expect to continue. Our ability to monetize our mobile user traffic is critical to our business and our growth. We face a number of challenges to successfully monetizing our mobile user traffic, including: • providing marketing services in a compelling and effective manner on mobile devices; • developing alternative sources of revenue generated from mobile access to our marketplaces; • offering a comprehensive user experience on our mobile apps; and • ensuring that the mobile services we provide are secure and trusted. If as we experience increased use of mobile devices for mobile commerce we are unable to monetize that increased use, our business may not grow or could decline, and our revenues and net income would be materially reduced. For instance, to date we have chosen not to display as many marketing impressions on our mobile apps as compared to on our personal computer-based websites. Although we do not believe the increasing use of mobile devices to conduct commerce has had an adverse effect on our business, our rapid overall growth may make less apparent any adverse effects of this trend on our near-term financial performance. In the quarter ended March 31, 2015, our mobile GMV exceeded 50% of our total GMV for the first time, and we expect mobile GMV as a percentage of total GMV will continue to grow and that our monetization rates for mobile interfaces in the near term will remain lower than those we have achieved from websites because to date our focus has not been on maximizing mobile monetization and we have only recently begun to increasingly monetize mobile activities. Going forward we believe our financial results will become increasingly dependent on our ability to monetize the use of mobile devices to access our marketplaces. We expect this trend will have a greater effect on our business to the extent that shopping on mobile devices displaces transactions that could have occurred on personal computers. We may not be able to maintain our culture, which has been a key to our success. Since our founding, our culture has been defined by our mission, vision and values, and we believe that our culture has been critical to our success. In particular, our culture has helped us serve the long-term interests of our customers, attract, retain and motivate employees and create value for our shareholders. We face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including: • failure to identify and promote people in leadership positions in our organization who share our culture, values and mission; • failure to execute a management succession plan to replace our current generation of management leaders; • the increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce; • challenges of effectively incentivizing and motivating employees who gained a substantial amount of personal wealth because of our initial public offering; • competitive pressures to move in directions that may divert us from our mission, vision and values; • the continued challenges of an ever-changing business environment; • the pressure from the public markets to focus on short-term results instead of long-term value creation; • the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us; and • the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. 9 Table of Contents If we are not able to maintain our culture or if our culture fails to deliver the long-term results we expect to achieve, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face increasingly intense competition, mainly from Chinese and global Internet companies as well as from offline retailers, particularly those establishing online marketplaces. We compete to attract, engage and retain buyers based on the variety and value of products and services listed on our marketplaces, overall user experience and convenience and availability of payment settlement and logistics services. We compete to attract and retain sellers based on our size and the engagement of buyers, and the effectiveness and value of the marketing services we offer. We also compete based on the usefulness of the services we provide, including marketing data and data science, cloud computing services, the availability of supporting services, including payment settlement and logistics services, and the quality of our customer service. In addition, we compete for motivated and effective talent and personnel, including engineers and product developers who serve critical functions in the development of our products and our ecosystem. Our ability to compete depends on a number of other factors as well, some of which may be out of our control, including: • the timely introduction and market acceptance of the services we offer, compared to those of our competitors; • our ability to innovate and develop new technologies; • our ability to maintain and enhance our leading position in mobile commerce in China; • our ability to benefit from new business initiatives; and • alliances, acquisitions or consolidations within the Internet industry that may result in stronger competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, the GMV transacted on our marketplaces and the user activity level on our platform may decrease significantly, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our brand. We rely on Alipay to conduct substantially all of the payment processing and all of the escrow services on our marketplaces. Alipay's business is highly regulated, and it is also subject to a range of risks. If Alipay's services are limited, restricted, curtailed or degraded in any way or become unavailable to us or our users for any reason, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Alipay provides payment processing and escrow services that are critical to our platform through contractual arrangements with us. In the twelve months ended March 31, 2015, 75% of GMV on our China retail marketplaces was settled through Alipay, and the settlement and escrow services and convenient payment mechanisms provided by Alipay are critical factors contributing to our success and the development of our ecosystem. We established Alipay in December 2004 to operate our payment services. In June 2010, the PBOC issued new regulations that required non-bank payment companies to obtain a license in order to operate in China. These regulations provided specific guidelines for license applications only for domestic PRC-owned entities. These regulations stipulated that, in order for any foreign-invested payment company to obtain a license, the scope of business, the qualifications of any foreign investor and any level of foreign ownership would be subject to future regulations to be issued, which in addition would require approval by the PRC State Council. Further, the regulations required that any payment company that failed to obtain a license had to cease operations by September 1, 2011. Although Alipay was prepared to submit its license application in early 2011, at that time the PBOC had not issued any guidelines applicable to license applications for foreign-invested payment companies (and no such guidelines have been issued as of the date of this annual report). In light of the uncertainties relating 10 Table of Contents to the license qualification and application process for a foreign-invested payment company, our management determined that it was necessary to restructure Alipay as a company wholly-owned by PRC nationals in order to avail Alipay of the specific licensing guidelines applicable only to domestic PRC-owned entities. Accordingly we divested all of our interest in and control over Alipay, which resulted in deconsolidation of Alipay from our financial statements. This action enabled Alipay to obtain a payment business license in May 2011 without delay and without any detrimental impact to our China retail marketplaces or to Alipay. Following the divestment of our interest in and control over Alipay, effective in the first calendar quarter of 2011, we entered into a framework agreement with Ant Financial Services (the parent company of Alipay), Alipay, SoftBank, Yahoo, Jack Ma and Joe Tsai to govern our relationship with Alipay and its parent company, Ant Financial Services. In August 2014, we entered into a share and asset purchase agreement or the 2014 SAPA, to further restructure the economic terms of our relationship with Alipay and Ant Financial Services. Pursuant to a commercial agreement we entered into with Alipay in connection with the 2011 framework agreement, as amended through August 2014, Alipay continues to provide payment services to us on terms preferential to us, which arrangement remains unchanged under the 2014 SAPA. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions — Agreements and Transactions Related to Ant Financial Services and its Subsidiaries." Alipay's business is highly regulated, and it is also subject to a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect its ability to provide payment processing and escrow services to us, including: • increased regulatory focus and the requirement to comply with numerous complex and evolving laws, rules and regulations; • increasing costs to Alipay, including fees charged by banks to process funds through Alipay, which would also increase our cost of revenues; • dissatisfaction with Alipay's services or lower use of Alipay by consumers and merchants; • changes to rules or practices applicable to payment card systems that link to Alipay; • leakage of customers' personal information and concerns over the use and security of any collected information; • service outages, system failures or failure to effectively scale the system to handle large and growing transaction volumes; • failure to manage funds accurately or loss of funds, whether due to employee fraud, security breaches, technical errors or otherwise; and • failure to manage business and regulatory risks. Regulators and third parties in China have been increasing their focus on online and mobile payment services, such as those provided by Alipay, and recent regulatory and other developments could reduce the convenience or utility of Alipay users' accounts, including the following: • In March 2014, it was reported that the PBOC had prepared a further draft of regulations relating to online and mobile payment services. The new draft of the regulations includes a number of proposed provisions relating to account management, security measures and other matters. These provisions would, if adopted, prohibit individuals from using the funds in their online and mobile payment accounts with third-party payment providers such as Alipay to make purchases in excess of RMB5,000 (US$807) in any single transaction or over RMB10,000 (US$1,613) in aggregate purchases per month. In addition, these provisions, if adopted, would limit transfers without any underlying e-commerce transaction from an individual's account with third-party payment providers to other accounts to RMB1,000 (US$161) per transaction and RMB10,000 (US$1,613) in aggregate transfers per year. If the draft regulations were to be adopted in their current or similar form, or other limits were imposed on the size or other aspects of transactions that may be processed through Alipay, the ability of buyers to pay for purchases on our marketplaces using Alipay payment accounts could be materially limited. The draft regulations, however, do not affect Alipay's escrow 11 Table of Contents services. Buyers on our marketplaces could continue to pay for purchases through other means, such as online bank transfers and credit cards, and continue to fund their Alipay escrow accounts. So long as payments are not made outside of the Alipay escrow system, we would continue to collect commissions on such purchases if they were made on marketplaces on which we collect commissions. The PBOC has indicated that the purpose of these provisions and other parts of the draft regulations is prudential and that final regulations, including these provisions, would be subject to public consultation and revision. • In March 2014, certain large commercial banks in China reduced their existing limits on the amounts that may be transferred by automatic payment from customers' bank accounts to their linked accounts with third-party payment services. Certain of these banks imposed lower limits on Alipay than on other payment services. These limits on payments funded through Alipay's automatic payment services range from RMB10,000 per day to RMB50,000 per day depending on the bank, while monthly transfer limits on payments funded through third-party payment companies' automatic payment services were set as low as RMB50,000 per month by certain banks. Although we believe the impact of these restrictions has not been and will not be significant in terms of the overall volume of payments processed for our China retail marketplaces, and automatic payment services represent only one of many payment mechanisms that buyers may use to settle transactions, the practices of the banks remain in flux. We cannot predict whether these and any additional restrictions could be put in place that could have a material adverse effect on our marketplaces. • In April 2014, the China Banking Regulatory Commission, or the CBRC, and the PBOC issued Joint Circular 10, which, effective June 30, 2014, will require commercial banks and other financial institutions in China to conduct additional customer verification procedures prior to establishing an automatic payment link between customers' bank accounts and their accounts with third-party payment services, such as Alipay. Once the accounts have been linked, Joint Circular 10 also requires commercial banks and other financial institutions in China to, upon the customer's request, adjust any limits imposed on the amounts that may be transferred to the linked accounts. It is unclear how commercial banks and other financial institutions will implement the additional customer verification procedures or the requirement to adjust the transfer limits. We rely on the convenience and ease of use that Alipay provides to our users. If the quality, utility, convenience or attractiveness of Alipay's services declines as a result of these limitations or for any other reason, the attractiveness of our marketplaces could be materially and adversely affected. If we need to migrate to another third-party payment service for any reason, the transition would require significant time and management resources, and the third-party payment service may not be as effective, efficient or well-received by buyers and sellers on our marketplaces. These third-party payment services also may not provide escrow services, and we may not be able to receive commissions based on GMV transacted through these systems. In addition, we would no longer have the benefit of the terms preferential to us under our commercial agreement with Alipay and would likely be required to pay more for payment processing and escrow services than we are currently paying. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reach an agreement with an alternative online payments service on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, because of our close association with Alipay and overlapping user base, events that negatively affect Alipay could also negatively affect customers', regulators' and other third parties' perception of us. In addition, any actual or perceived conflict of interest between us and Alipay or any other company integral to the functioning of our ecosystem could also materially harm our reputation as well as our business and prospects. 12 Table of Contents We do not control Alipay or its parent entity, Ant Financial Services, over which Jack Ma effectively controls a majority of the voting interests. Accordingly, if conflicts arise between us and Alipay or Ant Financial Services, including conflicts that could threaten our ability to continue to receive payment services on preferential terms or conflicts relating to commercial opportunities that we or Alipay or Ant Financial Services wish to pursue, such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor and could have a negative effect on our ecosystem and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, conflicts of interest may arise due to Jack Ma's role as executive chairman of our company and through his voting control over and his economic interest in Ant Financial Services, and he may not act to resolve such conflicts in our favor. Although we rely on Alipay to conduct substantially all of the payment processing and all of the escrow services on our marketplaces, we do not have any control over Alipay. Following the divestment of our interests in and control over Alipay, effective as of the first calendar quarter of 2011, we entered into an agreement with Alipay pursuant to which Alipay provides payment services on terms that are preferential to us. The agreement, as amended through August 2014, has an initial term of 50 years from the date of the original agreement, and is automatically renewable for further periods of 50 years. Following such divestment and subsequent equity holding restructurings, an entity controlled by Jack Ma, our executive chairman, has become the general partner of Hangzhou Junhan Equity Investment Partnership, or Junhan, a PRC limited partnership, and Junao Equity Investment Partnership, or Junao, a PRC limited partnership, which are two major equity holders of Ant Financial Services. Accordingly, Jack has an economic interest in Ant Financial Services and is able to exercise the voting power of the major shareholders of Ant Financial Services. We understand that through the exercise of such voting power, Jack continues to control a substantial majority of the voting interests in Ant Financial Services. As noted in the immediately preceding risk factor, Alipay's business is subject to a number of risks. If Alipay were not able to successfully manage these risks, its ability to continue to deliver payment services to us on preferential terms may be undermined. Furthermore, if, notwithstanding its existing obligations to us under the agreement, Alipay sought to alter the terms of the agreement and to amend the terms of its arrangements with us in order to improve its business by modifying the payment processing terms or otherwise, there is no assurance that Jack Ma, in light of his voting control over Alipay's parent, Ant Financial Services, will act in our interest. If we were to lose such preferential terms or if Alipay is unable to successfully manage its business, our ecosystem could be negatively affected, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to the payment processing and escrow services provided by Alipay, Ant Financial Services provides other financial services to participants in our ecosystem, including micro-finance services through the SME loan business that we transferred to Ant Financial Services upon the completion of the restructuring of our relationship with Ant Financial Services in early February 2015, and may provide additional services in the future. Other conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Alipay and Ant Financial Services, on the other hand, may arise relating to commercial or strategic opportunities or initiatives. Although we and Ant Financial Services have each agreed to certain non-competition undertakings under the 2014 SAPA, we cannot assure you that Ant Financial Services would not pursue opportunities to provide services to our competitors or other opportunities that would conflict with our interests. Jack Ma may not resolve such conflicts in our favor. Furthermore, our ability to explore alternative payment services other than Alipay for our marketplaces may be constrained due to Jack's relationship with Ant Financial Services. In addition, we have granted share-based awards to employees of Ant Financial Services, and Junhan has made share-based awards tied to the value of Ant Financial Services to our employees. The provision of awards to our employees tied to the value of Ant Financial Services is expected to enhance our strategic and financial relationship with Ant Financial Services. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions — Agreements and Transactions Related to Ant Financial Services and its Subsidiaries — Share-based Award Reimbursement Arrangements" and "— Equity-based Awards to Our Employees by a Related Party." The share-based awards granted by Junhan to our employees resulted in expenses that are recognized by our company. Subject to the approval of our audit committee, Jack, through his role with us and his control over Junhan could be in a position to propose and promote further share-based grants that result 13 Table of Contents in additional, and potentially significant, expenses to our company. Accordingly, these and other potential conflicts of interest between us and Alipay, and between us and Jack or Junhan, may not be resolved in our favor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are not able to continue to innovate or if we fail to adapt to changes in our industry, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Internet industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new service and product introductions and changing customer demands. Furthermore, our competitors are constantly developing innovations in Internet search, online marketing, communications, social networking and other services to enhance users' online experience. We continue to invest significant resources in our infrastructure, research and development and other areas in order to enhance our platform technology and our existing products and services as well as to introduce new high quality products and services that will attract more participants to our marketplaces. The changes and developments taking place in our industry may also require us to re-evaluate our business model and adopt significant changes to our long-term strategies and business plan. Our failure to innovate and adapt to these changes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business generates and processes a large amount of data, and the improper use or disclosure of such data could harm our reputation as well as have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our marketplaces and platform generate and process a large quantity of personal, transaction, demographic and behavioral data. We face risks inherent in handling large volumes of data and in protecting the security of such data. In particular, we face a number of challenges relating to data from transactions and other activities on our platform, including: • protecting the data in and hosted on our system, including against attacks on our system by outside parties or fraudulent behavior or improper use by our employees; • addressing concerns related to privacy and sharing, safety, security and other factors; and • complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information, including any requests from regulatory and government authorities relating to such data. In addition, pursuant to our data sharing agreement with Alipay and other participants in our ecosystem, which sets forth data security and confidentiality protocols, and subject to relevant legal requirements and limitations, we share certain data with Alipay and other participants in our ecosystem who provide services to sellers, such as marketing affiliates, retail operational partners, independent software vendors, or ISVs, and various professional service providers. These ecosystem participants face the same challenges inherent in handling large volumes of data and in protecting the security of such data. Any systems failure or security breach or lapse on our part or on the part of any of our ecosystem participants that results in the release of user data could harm our reputation and brand and, consequently, our business, in addition to exposing us to potential legal liability. As we expand our operations, we will be subject to additional laws in other jurisdictions where our sellers, buyers and other participants are located. The laws, rules and regulations of other jurisdictions, such as the United States and Europe, may impose more stringent or conflicting requirements and penalties than those in China, compliance with which could require significant resources and costs. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or privacy protection-related laws, rules and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. These proceedings or actions may subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and severely disrupt our business. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or our business. We primarily derive our revenue from online marketing services, commissions based on transaction value derived from certain of our marketplaces and fees from the sale of memberships on our wholesale marketplaces, and we have experienced significant growth in revenue in recent years. In particular, our revenue grew 52% from fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2014 and 45% from fiscal year 2014 to fiscal year 2015. Our marketing customers are typically brand owners, distributors and merchants who are sellers on our marketplaces. Marketing customers do not have long-term marketing commitments with us. The price a merchant is willing to pay for online marketing services generally depends on its expected GMV, profit margins and lifetime value of customers derived from such marketing investment. If those services do not generate the rate of return the seller expects or rates that are competitive to alternatives, the seller may reduce its spending on the marketing services we offer. In addition, as we currently are monetizing mobile GMV at a lower rate than GMV generated through personal computer interfaces, our revenue growth rate may be affected by the increasing proportion of mobile GMV in our overall GMV. Furthermore, our efforts to improve user experience may also adversely affect our revenue growth and financial results in the near term. Sellers on Tmall and Juhuasuan are required to pay a commission typically ranging from 0.3% to 5% of GMV settled through Alipay depending on the product category. If less GMV is transacted through such marketplaces or more GMV is generated from product categories with lower commission rates, or if more transactions are settled directly between buyers and sellers without using Alipay's payment processing and escrow services, the commissions we receive from transactions would decrease. For our wholesale marketplaces, we primarily derive revenues from membership fees. Potential changes in our strategy for monetizing our wholesale marketplaces could result in prolonged reductions in revenue from those marketplaces. Our future revenue growth may also depend on our ability to grow our other businesses, including our cloud computing business and the businesses we have acquired or invested in and new business initiatives we may explore in the future. In particular, we face risks associated with expanding into industries in which we have limited or no experience. For example, as we expand our entertainment business, we may be unable to produce or license quality content on commercially reasonable terms or at all, fail to anticipate or keep up with changes in user preferences, user behavior and technological developments or fail to gain access to content distribution channels. In addition, our expansion into the entertainment industry will subject us to additional regulatory risks, such as permit requirements and regulations over content in the PRC. If we are unable to successfully monetize and expand these businesses, our future revenue growth may be adversely affected. In addition, our revenue growth may slow or our revenues may decline for other reasons, including decreasing consumer spending, increasing competition, slowing growth of the China retail or China online retail industry and changes in government policies or general economic conditions. In addition, our revenue growth rate will likely decline as our revenue grows to higher levels. Increased investments in our business may negatively affect our margins and our net income. We have experienced significant growth in our profit margins and net income. For example, our operating profit and net income grew 132% and 171%, respectively, from fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2014. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our growth at these levels, or at all. For example, our operating profit declined by 7% and net income only grew 4% from fiscal year 2014 to fiscal year 2015. Furthermore, we have made, and intend to continue to make, strategic investments and acquisitions to expand our user base, enhance our cloud computing business, add complementary products and technologies and further strengthen our ecosystem. For example, we expect to continue to make strategic investments and acquisitions relating to mobile, entertainment, cloud computing and big data, logistics services, local commerce, category expansion, healthcare, as well as the Internet of things. Our strategic investments and acquisitions may affect our future financial results, including by decreasing our margins and net income. For example, our acquisitions, 15 Table of Contents including UCWeb, OneTouch and AutoNavi, resulted in an increase of expenses, but we do not expect they will materially increase our revenue in the short term. Historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs, which may be greater than we anticipate. Increases in our costs may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our net income growth rates or our margins. Failure to maintain or improve our technology infrastructure could harm our business and prospects. We are constantly upgrading our marketplaces and platform to provide increased scale, improved performance for both online and mobile use of our platform and additional built-in functionality and additional capacity for our cloud computing services. Adopting new products and upgrading our ecosystem infrastructure require significant investments of time and resources, including adding new hardware, updating software and recruiting and training new engineering personnel. Maintaining and improving our technology infrastructure require significant levels of investment. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, impaired quality of buyers' and sellers' experiences and delays in reporting accurate operating and financial information. For example, on Singles Day, there is significantly higher than normal activity on our marketplaces that our systems must handle. In addition, much of the software and interfaces we use are internally developed and proprietary technology. If we experience problems with the functionality and effectiveness of our software or platforms, or are unable to maintain and constantly improve our technology infrastructure to handle our business needs, our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects, as well as our reputation, could be materially and adversely affected. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China and other countries in which we operate. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China and other countries in which we operate. Almost all access to the Internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through state-owned international gateways, which are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet outside of China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the Internet infrastructure in China or elsewhere. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in the countries in which we operate may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. The failure of telecommunications network operators to provide us with the requisite bandwidth could also interfere with the speed and availability of our websites. We have no control over the costs of the services provided by the telecommunications operators. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may significantly decrease our revenues. Our ecosystem could be disrupted by network interruptions. Our ecosystem depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of our computer hardware and our cloud computing services is currently located in China. In addition, a large number of sellers maintain their enterprise resource planning, or ERP, and customer relationship management, or CRM, systems on our cloud computing platform, which contains substantial quantities of data relating to their accounts, transaction data, buyer information and other data that enables sellers to operate and manage their businesses. Although we have prepared for contingencies through redundancy measures and disaster recovery plans, such preparation may not be sufficient and we do not carry business interruption insurance. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, flood or fire, or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or the facilities of Alipay, Cainiao Logistics and other participants in our ecosystem, including power outages, system failures, telecommunications delays or failures, construction 16 Table of Contents accidents, break-ins to information technology systems or computer viruses, could result in delays or interruptions to our marketplaces and platforms, loss of our and customers' data and business interruption for us and our customers. Any of these events could damage our reputation, significantly disrupt our operations and the operations of the sellers and other participants in our ecosystem and subject us to liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sellers use third-party logistics and delivery companies to fulfill and deliver their orders. If these logistics and delivery companies fail to provide reliable delivery services, or our logistics information platform were to malfunction, suffer an outage or otherwise fail, our business and prospects, as well as our financial condition and results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected. We cooperate with a number of third-party logistics and delivery companies to help our sellers fulfill orders and deliver their products to buyers. We have established a logistics information platform that is operated by Zhejiang Cainiao Supply Chain Management Co. Ltd., or Cainiao Logistics (formerly referred to as China Smart Logistics), our 48%-owned affiliate, that links our information system to those of our logistics service partners. Interruptions to or failures in these third-parties' logistics and delivery services, or in our logistics information platform, could prevent the timely or proper delivery of products to buyers, which would harm the reputation of our marketplaces and our ecosystem. These interruptions may be due to events that are beyond our control or the control of these logistics and delivery companies, such as inclement weather, natural disasters, transportation disruptions or labor unrest. These logistics and delivery services could also be affected or interrupted by industry consolidation, insolvency or government shut-downs. We do not have agreements with logistics and delivery companies that require them to offer services to our sellers. The sellers on our marketplaces may not be able to find alternative logistics and delivery companies to provide logistics and delivery services in a timely and reliable manner, or at all. If the logistics information platform we use were to fail for any reason, our logistics service providers would be severely hindered from or unable to connect with our sellers, and their services and the functionality of our ecosystem could be severely affected. If the products sold on our marketplaces are not delivered in proper condition, on a timely basis or at shipping rates that marketplace participants are willing to bear, our business and prospects, as well as our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If third-party service providers on our ecosystem fail to provide reliable or satisfactory services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition to the services provided to our ecosystem by Alipay and logistics service providers, a number of third party participants, including marketing affiliates, retail operational partners, ISVs, and various professional service providers, also provide services to sellers. We do not have any agreements that require these third-party participants to provide services to sellers. To the extent these third-party service providers are unable to provide satisfactory services to sellers on commercially acceptable terms or at all or if we fail to retain existing or attract new quality service providers to our marketplaces, our ability to retain or attract sellers and buyers may be severely limited, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key management as well as experienced and capable personnel generally, and any failure to attract, motivate and retain our staff could severely hinder our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our future success is significantly dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. If we lose the services of any member of management or key personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new staff, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In particular, Jack Ma, our lead founder, executive chairman and one of our principal shareholders, has been crucial to the development of our culture and strategic direction. In addition, we have a number of employees, including many members of management, whose equity ownership in our company gave them a substantial amount of personal wealth following our initial public offering. 17 Table of Contents As a result, it may be difficult for us to continue to retain and motivate these employees, and this wealth could affect their decisions about whether or not they continue to remain with us. If we are unable to motivate or retain these employees, our business may be severely disrupted and our prospects could suffer. The size and scope of our ecosystem also require us to hire and retain a wide range of effective and experienced personnel who can adapt to a dynamic, competitive and challenging business environment. We will need to continue to attract and retain experienced and capable personnel at all levels as we expand our business and operations. Competition for talent in the PRC Internet industry is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates in China is limited. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits to attract and retain them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, there is no assurance that these individuals will choose to join or continue to work for us. Any failure to attract or retain key management and personnel could severely disrupt our business and growth. Security breaches and attacks against our systems and network, and any potentially resulting breach or failure to otherwise protect confidential and proprietary information could damage our reputation and negatively impact our business, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have employed significant resources to develop our security measures against breaches, our cybersecurity measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems, including distributed denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our systems or that we otherwise maintain. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures could result in unauthorized access to our systems, misappropriation of information or data, deletion or modification of user information, or a denial-of-service or other interruption to our business operations. As techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers, we may be unable to anticipate, or implement adequate measures to protect against, these attacks. We have in the past and are likely again in the future to be subject to these types of attacks, although to date no such attack has resulted in any material damages or remediation costs. If we are unable to avert these attacks and security breaches, we could be subject to significant legal and financial liability, our reputation would be harmed and we could sustain substantial revenue loss from lost sales and customer dissatisfaction. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks may target us, our sellers, buyers or other participants, or the communication infrastructure on which we depend. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur significantly higher costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and network protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Cybersecurity breaches would not only harm our reputation and business, but also could materially decrease our revenue and net income. We do not carry business interruption or cybersecurity insurance. Our failure to manage the growth of our business and operations could harm us. Our business has become increasingly complex, both in the types of businesses we operate and their scale. We have significantly expanded our headcount, office facilities and infrastructure, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas and geographies will be required. This expansion increases the complexity of our operations and places a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We must continue to effectively hire, train and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating new employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Moreover, our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. To effectively manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, which could be particularly challenging as we acquire new operations with different and incompatible systems. 18 Table of Contents These efforts will require significant managerial, financial and human resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our growth or to implement all these systems, procedures and control measures successfully. If we are not able to manage our growth effectively, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks relating to our acquisitions, investments and alliances. We have acquired and invested in a significant number of businesses, technologies, services and products in recent years, including investments in equity investees and joint ventures in which we do not hold a controlling stake, and have a number of pending investments and acquisitions that are subject to closing conditions. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Recent Investment, Acquisition and Strategic Alliance Activities." We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and alliances. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including: • difficulties integrating into our operations the personnel, operations, products, services, technology, internal controls and financial reporting of companies we acquire; • disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of our management and employees and increase of our expenses; • loss of skilled professionals as well as established client relationships of the businesses we invest in or acquire; • for investments over which we may not obtain management and operational control, we may lack influence over the controlling partner or shareholder, which may prevent us from achieving our strategic goals in such investment; • new regulatory requirements and compliance risks that we become subject to as a result of acquisitions of businesses in new industries or otherwise; • actual or alleged misconduct or non-compliance by any company we acquire or invest in (or by its affiliates) that occurred prior to our acquisition or investment, which may lead to negative publicity, government inquiry or investigations against such company or against us; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities or costs that may adversely affect us following our acquisition of such targets; • potential impairment charges or write-offs due to the changes in the fair value of the acquired targets as a result of market volatility or other reasons that we may or may not control; • regulatory hurdles including in relation to the anti-monopoly and competition laws, rules and regulations of China and other countries in connection with any proposed investments and acquisitions, including, in the case of our potential future acquisition of an equity interest in Ant Financial Services, PRC regulations pertaining to non-bank payment companies; • the risk that any of our pending or other future proposed acquisitions does not close; and • challenges in achieving the expected benefits of synergies and growth opportunities in connection with these acquisitions and investments, such as the inability to realize the expected benefits of the restructuring in August 2014 of our relationship with Alipay and Ant Financial Services. Our significant acquisition activity has occurred recently, and we do not have substantial experience in integrating major acquisitions. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In particular, the 2014 SAPA provides for future potential acquisition by us of an equity interest in Ant Financial Services, subject to certain PRC regulatory approvals. We 19 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to acquire an equity interest in Ant Financial Services, or that we will be able to acquire such equity interest in the future. We may be subject to allegations and lawsuits claiming that items listed on our marketplaces are pirated, counterfeit or illegal. We have received in the past, and we anticipate we will receive in the future, communications alleging that items offered or sold through our online marketplaces by third parties or that we make available through other services, such as our online music platform, infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and patents or other intellectual property rights. Although we have adopted measures to verify the authenticity of products sold on our marketplaces and minimize potential infringement of third-party intellectual property rights through our intellectual property infringement complaint and take-down procedures, these measures may not always be successful. We have been and may continue to be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability based on allegedly unlawful activities carried out by third parties through our online marketplaces. We also have been and may continue to be subject to allegations that we were participants in or facilitators of such allegedly unlawful activities. For example, in May 2015 we were named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the Southern District of New York by Kering S.A and other plaintiffs, which asserts various claims based on, among other things, the sales of allegedly counterfeit or otherwise trademark infringing merchandise by sellers on certain of our marketplaces. When we receive complaints or allegations regarding infringement or counterfeit goods, we follow certain procedures to verify the nature of the complaint and the relevant facts. We believe these procedures are important for purposes of investigating the allegations in question so that we can ensure confidence in our marketplace among buyers and sellers; however, these procedures could result in delays in delistings of allegedly infringing product listings. In the event that alleged counterfeit or infringing products are listed or sold on our marketplaces or our other services, we could face claims relating to such listings or sales or for our alleged failure to act in a timely or effective manner in response to infringement or to otherwise restrict or limit such sales or infringement. We may implement further measures in an effort to strengthen our protection against these potential liabilities that could require us to spend substantial additional resources and/or experience reduced revenues by discontinuing certain service offerings. In addition, these changes may reduce the attractiveness of our marketplaces and other services to buyers, sellers or other users. A customer whose content is removed or whose services are suspended or terminated by us, regardless of our compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations, may dispute our actions and commence action against us for damages based on breach of contract or other causes of action or make public complaints or allegations. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods or other infringement could harm our business. Moreover, we have in the past received negative publicity regarding the sales of counterfeit and pirated items on our marketplaces. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, Alibaba.com, and in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Taobao Marketplace, were named as "notorious markets" in the annual Special 301 Report or Special 301 Out-of-Cycle Review prepared by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. The U.S. Trade Representative subsequently removed these marketplaces from the list. In January 2015, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce in China, or SAIC, released a report stating that Taobao Marketplace had the highest percentage of counterfeit goods among the online marketplaces that it surveyed. Subsequently, in the same month, the SAIC released a self-described "white paper" discussing perceived failures of our platform, including an alleged failure to crack down on the sale of counterfeit goods and other alleged illegal activities on our China retail marketplaces. Although the SAIC withdrew the so-called "white paper" the same day it was released, and later clarified that the document carried no legal force, continued public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our marketplaces or that we delay the process of removing such items, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation, result in lower list prices for goods sold through our marketplaces, harm our business, result in litigation and regulatory pressure or action against us and diminish the value of our brand name. 20 Table of Contents Failure to deal effectively with any fraud perpetrated and fictitious transactions conducted on our marketplaces and other sources of customer dissatisfaction would harm our business. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our marketplaces and periodically receive complaints from buyers who may not have received the goods that they had purchased, as well as complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Although we have implemented various measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities on our marketplaces, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among our sellers, buyers and other participants. Additional measures that we take to address fraud could also negatively affect the attractiveness of our marketplaces to buyers or sellers. In addition, sellers on our marketplaces contribute to a fund to provide consumer protection guarantees. If our sellers do not perform their obligations under these programs, then we may use funds that have been deposited by sellers in a consumer protection fund to compensate buyers. If the amounts in the fund are not sufficient, we may choose to compensate buyers for such losses although we are not legally obligated to do so. Although we have recourse against our sellers for any amounts we incur, there is no assurance that we would be able to collect from our sellers. In addition to fraudulent transactions with legitimate buyers, sellers may also engage in fictitious or "phantom" transactions with themselves or collaborators in order to artificially inflate their own ratings on our marketplaces, reputation and search results rankings. This activity may harm other sellers by enabling the perpetrating seller to be favored over legitimate sellers, and may harm buyers by deceiving them into believing that a seller is more reliable or trusted than the seller actually is. Moreover, illegal, fraudulent or collusive activities by our employees could also subject us to liability or negative publicity. For instance, we learned that in early 2011 and 2012 in two separate incidents, certain of our employees had accepted payments from sellers in order to receive preferential treatment on Alibaba.com and Juhuasuan. Although we dismissed the employees responsible for the incidents and have taken action to further strengthen our internal controls and policies with regard to the review and approval of seller accounts, sales activities and other relevant matters, we cannot assure you that such controls and policies will prevent fraud or illegal activity by our employees or that similar incidents will not occur in the future. Any such illegal, fraudulent or collusive activity could severely damage our brand and reputation as an operator of trusted marketplaces, which could drive users and buyers away from our marketplaces, and materially and adversely affect GMV transacted on our marketplaces, our revenues and our net income. In January 2015, the SAIC discussed alleged fraudulent and fictitious transactions on our China retail marketplaces in its self-described "white paper." Although the SAIC withdrew the so-called "white paper" the same day it was released and later clarified that the document carried no legal force, the negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of this document or other allegations of fraudulent or deceptive conduct on our platform, whether allegedly engaged in by our employees or by third parties, could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services, reduce our ability to attract new or retain current sellers, buyers and other participants, damage our reputation, result in shareholder or other litigation and diminish the value of our brand names, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may increasingly become a target for public scrutiny, including complaints to regulatory agencies, negative media coverage, including social media and malicious reports, all of which could severely damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We process millions of transactions on a daily basis on our marketplaces, and the high volume of transactions taking place on our marketplaces and publicity about our business creates the possibility of heightened attention from the public, the media and our participants. For example, we receive complaints from our sellers, buyers and other participants about our marketplaces. In addition, changes in our services or policies have resulted and could result in objections by members of the public, the media, including social media, participants in our ecosystem or others. From time to time, these objections or allegations, regardless of their veracity, may result in public protests or negative publicity, which could result in government inquiry or harm our reputation. Corporate transactions we 21 Table of Contents or related parties undertake may also subject us to increased media exposure and public scrutiny. There is no assurance that we would not become a target for public scrutiny in the future or such scrutiny and public exposure would not severely damage our reputation as well as our business and prospects. In addition, our directors and management have been, and continue to be, subject to scrutiny by the media and the public regarding their activities in and outside Alibaba Group, which may result in unverified, inaccurate or misleading information about them being reported by the press. Negative publicity about our executive chairman or other founders, directors or management, even if untrue or inaccurate, may harm our reputation. We and Ant Financial Services are subject to various laws and regulations, and future laws and regulations may impose additional requirements and other obligations on our business or otherwise that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industries in which we and Ant Financial Services operate in the PRC, including online and mobile commerce and payments, financial services and cloud computing, are highly regulated. The PRC government authorities are likely to continue to issue new laws, rules and regulations governing these industries, enhance enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations and require new and additional licenses, permits and approvals from us and our users. These laws, rules and regulations and their application to us could take a direction that is adverse to our or Ant Financial Services' business at any time. In addition, there is no assurance that any required licenses, permits and approvals could be obtained in a timely or cost-effective manner, and failure to obtain them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulatory enforcement as well as tax policy in the PRC could also result in additional compliance obligations and increased costs or place restrictions upon our current or future operations. Any such legislation or regulation could also severely disrupt and constrain our business and the payment services used on our marketplaces. Transactions conducted through our cross-border marketplaces may be subject to different customs and import/export rules and regulations. These rules and regulations are complex, and customs and tax authorities in the relevant jurisdictions may challenge our interpretation of applicable customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under their respective customs and import/export laws and treaties. In addition, we will also face the challenge of complying concurrently with the compliance rules and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, and such rules or regulations could conflict or interact with each other in complex ways. We have from time to time been subject to PRC and other foreign government inquiries and investigations, including those relating to website content and alleged third-party intellectual property infringement. We also face scrutiny, and have been subject to inquiries and investigations, from foreign governmental bodies that focus on cross-border trade, intellectual property protection, human rights and user privacy matters. None of these inquiries and investigations has resulted in significant restrictions on our business operations. However, as we continue to grow in scale and significance, we expect to face increased scrutiny, which will, at a minimum, result in our having to increase our investment in compliance and related capabilities and systems. The increasing sophistication and development of our user base will also increase the need for higher standards of user protection, privacy protection and dispute management. Any increased involvement in inquiries or investigations could result in significantly higher legal and other costs, diversion of management and other resources, as well as negative publicity, which could harm our business and reputation and materially reduce our revenue and net income. Alipay, which provides the substantial majority of the payment processing services on our marketplaces, is subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the PRC and other countries where it operates, including those governing banking, privacy, cross-border and domestic money transmission, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and consumer protection laws, rules and regulations. These laws, rules and regulations are highly complex and could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for Alipay to comply. In recent years, the PRC government has increasingly focused on regulation of the financial industry, including laws, rules and regulations relating to the provision of payment services. See "— We rely on Alipay to conduct substantially all of the payment processing and all of the escrow services on our marketplaces. Alipay's business is highly regulated, and it is also subject to a range of risks. If Alipay's services are limited, restricted, curtailed or degraded in any 22 Table of Contents way or become unavailable to us for any reason, our business may be materially and adversely affected." In addition, Alipay is required to maintain a payment business license in the PRC. In 2011, we divested our interest in and control over Alipay in response to PBOC regulations issued in June 2010 that required non-bank payment companies to obtain a payment business license before September 1, 2011. These regulations provided specific guidelines for license applications only for domestic PRC-owned entities but stated that specific guidelines applicable to license applications for foreign-invested payment entities would be issued separately (although no such guidelines have been issued as of the date of this annual report). Accordingly, our management restructured the ownership and control of Alipay into a company wholly-owned by PRC nationals in order to obtain a payment business license within the time period prescribed by the PBOC regulations. In August 2014, we entered into the 2014 SAPA to further restructure the economic terms of our relationship with Alipay and its parent company. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions — Agreements and Transactions Related to Ant Financial Services and its Subsidiaries — Share and Asset Purchase Agreement." Alipay is also required to maintain other applicable money transmitter or other licenses and approvals from regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions in which it operates, and the expansion by Alipay of its business may require additional licenses and approvals. Currently, in certain jurisdictions where Alipay does not have the required money transmitter or other licenses, Alipay provides payment processing and escrow services through third-party service providers. If these providers were to terminate their relationship with Alipay or otherwise cease providing services to Alipay, cross-border transactions on our marketplaces would be negatively affected. If Alipay fails to obtain and maintain all required licenses and approvals or otherwise fails to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, if new laws, rules or regulations come into effect that impact Alipay's business, its services could be suspended or severely disrupted, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties and content restrictions of relevant laws. Third parties may claim that the technology used in the operation of our platforms or our service offerings, including our cloud computing services, infringes upon their intellectual property rights. Although we have not in the past faced material litigation involving direct claims of infringement by us, the possibility of intellectual property claims against us increases as we continue to grow, particularly internationally. Such claims, whether or not having merit, may result in our expenditure of significant financial and management resources, injunctions against us or payment of damages. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. These risks have been amplified by the increase in the number of third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of products, services, news, information, audio-video programs and other content through the Internet. The PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If any of the information disseminated through our marketplaces and websites were deemed by the PRC government to violate any content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of any claims, investigations and proceedings is inherently uncertain, and in any event defending against these claims could be both costly and time-consuming, and could significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and other personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings could cause us to pay damages, as well as legal and other costs, limit our ability to conduct business or require us to change the manner in which we operate. 23 Table of Contents We may become the target of anti-monopoly and unfair competition claims, which may result in our being subject to fines as well as constraints on our business. Although the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law is relatively recent, having taken effect on August 1, 2008, two of the three PRC anti-monopoly enforcement agencies, the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the SAIC, have in recent years strengthened enforcement actions, including levying significant fines, with respect to cartel activity as well as abusive behavior of companies having market dominance. The PRC Anti-Monopoly Law also provides a private right of action for competitors or users to bring anti-monopoly claims against companies. In recent years, an increased number of companies have been exercising their right to seek relief under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law. As public awareness of the rights under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law increases, more companies, including our competitors, business partners and customers may resort to the remedies under the law to improve their competition position, regardless of the merits of their claims. From time to time, we may receive close scrutiny from government agencies under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law in connection with our business practices, investments and acquisitions. Any anti-monopoly lawsuit or administrative proceeding initiated against us may result in our being subject to profit disgorgement, heavy fines and various constraints on our business, or result in negative publicity which could harm our reputation and negatively affect the trading price of our ADSs. These constraints could include forced termination of any agreements or arrangements that are determined to be in violation of anti-monopoly laws, required divestitures and limitations on certain business practices, which may limit our ability to continue to innovate, diminish the appeal of our services and increase our operating costs. These constraints could also enable our competitors to develop websites, products and services that mimic the functionality of our services, which could decrease the popularity of our marketplaces among sellers, buyers and other participants, and cause our revenue and net income to decrease materially. We may face challenges in expanding our cross-border operations. As we plan to continue expanding our existing cross-border operations into existing and other markets, we will face risks associated with expanding into markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our company may be less well-known. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers and other participants, fail to anticipate competitive conditions or face difficulties in operating effectively in these new markets. The expansion of our cross-border business will also expose us to risks inherent in transacting business globally, including: • lack of acceptance of our service offerings; • challenges and increased expenses associated with staffing and managing cross-border operations and managing an organization spread over various jurisdictions; • trade barriers such as import and export restrictions, competition law regimes and other trade restrictions; • differing and potentially adverse tax consequences; • increased and conflicting regulatory compliance requirements; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • increased costs to protect intellectual property; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • political instability and general economic or political conditions in particular countries or regions. As we expand further into new regions and markets, these risks could intensify. One or more of these factors could adversely impact our cross-border operations. Accordingly, any efforts we make to expand our cross-border operations may not be successful. Failure to expand our cross-border operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our brand name and our business may be harmed by aggressive marketing and communications strategies of our competitors. Due to intense competition in our industry, we have been and may be the target of incomplete, inaccurate and false statements about our company and our services that could damage our and our management's reputation and our brand and materially deter consumers from making purchases on our marketplaces. Our ability to respond to our competitors' misleading marketing efforts may be limited during our self-imposed quiet periods around quarter ends or due to legal prohibitions on permissible public communications by us during certain other periods. Our revenue and net income may be materially and adversely affected by any economic slowdown in China as well as globally. The success of our business ultimately depends on consumer spending. We derive substantially all of our revenue from China. As a result, our revenue and net income are impacted to a significant extent by economic conditions in China and globally, as well as economic conditions specific to online and mobile commerce. The global economy, markets and levels of consumer spending are influenced by many factors beyond our control, including consumer perception of current and future economic conditions, political uncertainty, levels of employment, inflation or deflation, real disposable income, interest rates, taxation and currency exchange rates. The PRC government has in recent years implemented a number of measures to control the rate of economic growth, including by raising interest rates and adjusting deposit reserve ratios for commercial banks as well as by implementing other measures designed to tighten credit and liquidity. These measures have contributed to a slowdown of the PRC economy. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, China's GDP growth rate was 7.4% in 2014. Any continuing or worsening slowdown could significantly reduce domestic commerce in China, including through the Internet generally and within our ecosystem. An economic downturn, whether actual or perceived, a further decrease in economic growth rates or an otherwise uncertain economic outlook in China or any other market in which we may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our results of operations fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, our business is characterized by seasonal fluctuations, which may cause further fluctuations. The fourth quarter of each calendar year generally contributes the largest portion of our annual revenues due to a number of factors, such as sellers allocating a significant portion of their online marketing budgets to the fourth calendar quarter, promotions, such as Singles Day on November 11 of each year and the impact of seasonal buying patterns in respect of certain categories such as apparel. The first quarter of each calendar year generally contributes the smallest portion of our annual revenues, primarily due to a lower level of allocation of online marketing budgets by sellers at the beginning of the calendar year and the Chinese New Year holiday, during which time consumers generally spend less and businesses in China are generally closed. We may also introduce new promotions or change the timing of our promotions in ways that further cause our quarterly results to fluctuate and differ from historical patterns. In addition, seasonal weather patterns may affect the timing of buying decisions. For example, unexpectedly long periods of warm weather could delay the purchase of heavier clothing items that have higher average selling prices, resulting in lower than expected GMV. The performance of our equity investees and of businesses, including internally developed businesses, in which we have made investments may also result in fluctuations in our results of operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations related to our investments may also result from the accounting implication of re-measurement of fair values of certain financial instruments, share-based awards, previously held equity interests upon disposal or step acquisitions. Given that the fair value movements of the underlying equities of financial instruments, share-based awards or previously held equity interests are beyond the control of our management, the magnitude of the related accounting impact is unpredictable and may affect our results of operations significantly. Our results of operations will likely fluctuate due to these and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our rapid growth has masked the seasonality that might otherwise be apparent 25 Table of Contents in our results of operations. If our growth slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced. Moreover, as our business grows, we expect that our fixed costs and expenses, such as payroll and benefits, bandwidth and co-location fees, will continue to increase, which will result in operating leverage in seasonally strong quarters but can significantly pressure operating margins in seasonally weak quarters. Our quarterly and annual financial results will likely differ from our historical performance. To the extent our results of operations are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in the future, or if there are significant fluctuations in our financial results, the market price of our ADSs could decline materially. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trademark, fair trade practice, patent, copyright and trade secret protection laws in China and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and any third parties who may access our proprietary information, and we rigorously control access to our proprietary technology and information. Intellectual property protection may not be sufficient in China or other countries in which we operate. Confidentiality agreements may be breached by counterparties, and there may not be adequate remedies available to us for any such breach. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or to enforce our contractual rights in China or elsewhere. In addition, policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time-consuming and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. In the event that we resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managerial and financial resources. We can provide no assurance that we will prevail in such litigation. In addition, our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become available to, or be independently discovered by, our competitors. Any failure in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims under consumer protection laws, including health and safety claims and product liability claims, if property or people are harmed by the products sold on our marketplaces. Due to several high-profile incidents involving food safety and consumer complaints that have occurred in China in recent years, the PRC government, media outlets and public advocacy groups are increasingly focused on consumer protection. Moreover, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to increase our focus on food and beverage and healthcare products, which could expose us to increasing liability associated with consumer protection laws in those areas. Operators of commerce marketplaces and platforms are subject to certain provisions of consumer protection laws even where such operator is not the seller of the product or service purchased by the consumer. For example, under applicable consumer protection laws in China, e-commerce platform operators may be held liable for consumer claims relating to damage if they are unable to provide consumers with the true name, address and contact details of sellers or service providers. In addition, if we do not take appropriate remedial action against sellers or service providers for actions they engage in that we know, or should have known, would infringe upon the rights and interests of consumers, we may be held jointly liable with the seller or service provider for such infringement. Moreover, applicable consumer protection laws in China hold that trading platforms will be held liable for failing to meet any undertakings such platforms make to consumers with regard to products listed on their websites. Furthermore, we are required to report to SAIC or its local branches any violation of applicable laws, regulations or SAIC rules by sellers or service providers, such as sales of goods without proper license or authorization, and to take appropriate remedial measures, including ceasing to provide services to such sellers or service providers. If claims are brought against us under any of these laws, we could be subject to damages and reputational damage as well as action by regulators, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain product liability insurance for products and services transacted on our marketplaces, and our rights of indemnity from the sellers on our marketplaces may not 26 Table of Contents adequately cover us for any liability we may incur. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and resources and could materially reduce our net income and profitability. Tightening of tax compliance efforts with respect to the revenue or profit generated by our sellers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. E-commerce in China is still developing, and the PRC government may require operators of marketplaces, such as our company, to assist in the collection of taxes with respect to the revenue or profit generated by sellers from transactions conducted on their platforms. A significant number of small businesses and sole proprietors operating businesses through storefronts on Taobao Marketplace may not have completed the required tax registration. PRC tax authorities may enforce registration requirements that target small businesses or sole proprietors on Taobao Marketplace and may request our assistance in these efforts. As a result, these sellers may be subject to more stringent tax compliance requirements and liabilities and their business on our marketplaces could suffer or they could decide to remove their storefronts from our marketplace rather than comply, which could in turn negatively affect us. We may also be requested by tax authorities to supply information on our sellers, such as transaction records and bank account information, and assist in the enforcement of tax regulations, including the payment and withholding obligations against our sellers, in which case, potential sellers might not be willing to open storefronts on our marketplaces. Potential heightened enforcement against participants in e-commerce transactions (including imposition of reporting or withholding obligations on operators of marketplaces with respect to business tax or value-added tax of sellers) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We have been involved in litigation relating principally to third-party intellectual property infringement claims, contract disputes involving sellers and buyers on our platform, employment related cases and other matters in the ordinary course of our business. As our ecosystem expands, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we may face an increasing number of such claims, including those involving higher amounts of damages. As a publicly-listed company, we may face additional exposure to claims and lawsuits inside and outside China. We will need to defend against such lawsuits, including any appeals of such lawsuits should our initial defense be successful. The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such cases and any adverse outcome of these cases could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular, we have been named as a defendant in certain purported shareholder class action lawsuits described in "Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings." We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome from the lawsuits, including any plaintiff's appeal of the judgment in these lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. In addition, although we obtained directors and officers liability insurance, the insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover our indemnification obligations. In addition, on January 30, 2015, the SEC initiated a non-public inquiry into whether any violations of the federal securities laws have occurred. Please see "Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings — Regulatory Inquiry." As part of its inquiry, the SEC requested that we voluntarily provide certain information. We have agreed to voluntarily cooperate with the SEC and have been cooperating with the SEC. We intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC's inquiry and to provide the SEC with the requested information. However, the inquiry has resulted and could continue to result in considerable legal expenses, the diversion of a significant amount of management's attention from other business concerns and could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the SEC will not recommend action against us, or our directors or officers, which could include penalties, fines, injunctive relief, 27 Table of Contents a cease and desist order, limitations on the service of directors or officers, and other sanctions. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of the SEC's inquiry. The existence of litigation, claims, investigations and proceedings may harm our reputation and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. The outcome of any claims, investigations and proceedings is inherently uncertain, and in any event defending against these claims could be both costly and time-consuming, and could significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and other personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings could cause us to pay damages as well as legal and other costs, limit our ability to conduct business or require us to change the manner in which we operate. We may suffer reputational harm and the price of our ADSs may decrease significantly due to business dealings or connections of sellers or buyers on our marketplaces with sanctioned countries. Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan are identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and are the target of comprehensive U.S. economic sanctions. We do not have physical staff or operations in these sanctioned countries, and although our websites are open and available worldwide, we do not actively solicit business from users in these sanctioned countries. As a non-U.S. entity, we are not generally required to comply with U.S. sanctions to the same extent as U.S. entities, with certain exceptions principally relating to our U.S. subsidiaries, any of our employees who are U.S. persons or dealings involving U.S.-origin goods or services. In the case of Alibaba.com, our aggregate revenue from members in these sanctioned countries in fiscal year 2015 accounted for less than 0.02% of our international wholesale commerce cash revenue. In the case of AliExpress and Taobao Marketplace, an insignificant number of orders have been placed by buyers from the sanctioned countries, with an aggregate GMV settled of approximately US$3.4 million in the twelve months ended March 31, 2015. As all transaction fees on AliExpress and Taobao Marketplace are paid by sellers, primarily based in China, we do not earn any fees or commissions from buyers in sanctioned countries in respect of transactions conducted on these platforms. Certain U.S.-based institutional investors, including state and municipal governments and universities, have proposed or adopted divestment or similar initiatives regarding investments in companies that do business with sanctioned countries. Accordingly, as a result of activities on our marketplaces involving users based in the sanctioned countries, certain investors may not wish to invest, and may divest their investment, in us. Such divestment initiatives may negatively impact our reputation and investor sentiment with respect to our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as our business continues to expand, our business partners, joint venture partners or other parties that have collaborative relationship with us or our affiliates may engage in activities in or with sanctioned countries, which may also result in negative publicity and reputational harm against us. Any negative investor sentiment as a result of such reputational issues may cause the price of our ADSs to decline significantly and may materially reduce the value of our investment in our ADSs. We may be subject to liability for content on our websites and mobile interfaces that is alleged to be socially destabilizing, obscene, defamatory, libelous or otherwise unlawful. Under PRC law and the laws of certain other jurisdictions in which we operate, we are required to monitor our websites and the websites hosted on our servers and mobile interfaces for items or content deemed to be socially destabilizing, obscene, superstitious or defamatory, as well as items, content or services that are illegal to sell online or otherwise in other jurisdictions in which we operate our marketplaces, and promptly take appropriate action with respect to such items, content or services. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our customers or users of our websites or mobile interfaces or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be subject to fines, have our relevant business operation licenses revoked, or be prevented from operating our websites or mobile interfaces in China or other jurisdictions. In addition, claims may be brought against us for defamation, libel, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, tort (including personal injury), other unlawful activity or other theories and claims based on the 28 Table of Contents nature and content of information posted on our marketplaces, including product reviews and message boards, by our buyers, sellers and other marketplace participants. Regardless of the outcome of such a dispute or lawsuit, we may suffer from negative publicity and reputational damage as a result of these actions. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in acceleration of indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We have issued an aggregate of US$8.0 billion unsecured senior notes. We have also entered into a US$3.0 billion revolving credit facility, which we have not yet drawn. Under the terms of our unsecured senior notes and credit facility and under any debt financing arrangement that we may enter into in the future, we are, and may be in the future, subject to covenants that could, among other things, restrict our business and operations. If we breach any of these covenants, our lenders and holders of our unsecured senior notes will be entitled to accelerate our debt obligations. Any default under our credit facility or unsecured senior notes could require that we repay these debts prior to maturity as well as limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We may need additional capital but may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms or at all. We may require additional cash resources due to future growth and development of our business, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain new or expanded credit facilities. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including our future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, trading price of our ADSs, liquidity of international capital and lending markets and PRC governmental regulations over foreign investment and the Internet industry in the PRC. In addition, incurring indebtedness would subject us to increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in a timely manner or in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any failure to raise needed funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could severely restrict our liquidity as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could result in significant dilution our existing shareholders. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our indebtedness. We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our indebtedness. The interest rates under our credit facility and one tranche of our unsecured senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of US$300 million are based on a spread over LIBOR. As a result, the interest expenses associated with such indebtedness will be subject to the potential impact of any fluctuation in LIBOR. Any increase in LIBOR could impact our financing costs if not effectively hedged. Although from time to time, we use hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to interest rate risk, these hedges may not be effective. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage to cover our business risks. We have obtained insurance to cover certain potential risks and liabilities, such as property damage. However, insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of risks such as business liability or service disruption insurance for our operations in China, and our coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur, particularly with respect to loss of business or operations. We do not maintain business interruption insurance or product liability insurance, nor do we maintain key-man life insurance. This could leave us exposed to potential claims and losses. Any business disruption, litigation, regulatory action, outbreak of epidemic disease or natural disaster could also expose us to substantial costs and diversion of resources. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to prevent us from any loss or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our current 29 Table of Contents insurance policy on a timely basis, or at all. If we incur any loss that is not covered by our insurance policies, or the compensated amount is significantly less than our actual loss, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. An occurrence of a natural disaster, widespread health epidemic or other outbreaks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, such as snowstorms, earthquakes, fires or floods, the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, such as swine flu, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, Ebola or other events, such as wars, acts of terrorism, environmental accidents, power shortage or communication interruptions. The occurrence of such a disaster or a prolonged outbreak of an epidemic illness or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the world could materially disrupt our business and operations. Such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of the facilities we use for our operations, which would severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the swine flu, avian influenza, SARS Ebola, or other epidemical diseases, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect the facilities used for our operations. In addition, our revenue and profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that a natural disaster, health epidemic or other outbreak harms the global or PRC economy in general. Our operations could also be severely disrupted if our buyers, sellers or other participants were affected by such natural disasters, health epidemics or other outbreaks. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure The Alibaba Partnership and related voting agreements limit the ability of our shareholders to nominate and elect directors. Our articles of association allow the Alibaba Partnership to nominate or appoint a simple majority of our board of directors. If at any time our board of directors consists of less than a simple majority of directors nominated or appointed by the Alibaba Partnership for any reason, including because a director previously nominated by the Alibaba Partnership ceases to be a member of our board of directors or because the Alibaba Partnership had previously not exercised its right to nominate or appoint a simple majority of our board of directors, the Alibaba Partnership will be entitled (in its sole discretion) to nominate or appoint such number of additional directors to the board as necessary to ensure that the directors nominated or appointed by the Alibaba Partnership comprise a simple majority of our board of directors. In addition, we have entered into a voting agreement pursuant to which SoftBank, Yahoo, Jack Ma and Joe Tsai have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the Alibaba Partnership director nominees at each annual general shareholders meeting for so long as SoftBank owns at least 15% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Furthermore, the voting agreement provides that SoftBank has the right to nominate one director to our board until SoftBank owns less than 15% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and that right is also reflected in our articles of association. In addition, pursuant to the voting agreement, Yahoo, Jack Ma and Joe Tsai have agreed to vote their shares (including shares for which they have voting power) in favor of the election of the SoftBank director nominee at each annual general shareholders meeting in which the SoftBank nominee stands for election. Moreover, subject to certain exceptions, pursuant to the voting agreement SoftBank and Yahoo have agreed to give Jack and Joe a proxy over, with respect to SoftBank, any portion of its shareholdings exceeding 30% of our outstanding shares and, with respect to Yahoo, all of its shareholdings up to a maximum of 121.5 million of our ordinary shares. These proxies will remain in effect until Jack Ma owns less than 1% of our ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis or we materially breach the voting agreement. This governance structure and contractual arrangement limit the ability of our shareholders to influence corporate matters, including any matters determined at the board level. In addition, the nomination right granted to the Alibaba Partnership will remain in place for the life of the Alibaba Partnership unless our articles of 30 Table of Contents association are amended to provide otherwise by a vote of shareholders representing at least 95% of shares that vote at a shareholders meeting. The nomination rights of the Alibaba Partnership will remain in place notwithstanding a change of control or merger of our company and, for so long as SoftBank and Yahoo remain substantial shareholders, we expect the Alibaba Partnership nominees will receive a majority of votes cast at any meeting for the election of directors and will be elected as directors. These provisions and agreements could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could limit the opportunity of our shareholders to receive a premium for their ADSs, and could also materially decrease the price that some investors are willing to pay for our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, the parties to the voting agreement and the partners of the Alibaba Partnership held in aggregate more than 50% of our outstanding ordinary shares (including unvested shares and shares underlying vested and unvested awards). See "Item 6. Directors and Senior Management — A. Directors and Senior Management — Alibaba Partnership." The interests of the Alibaba Partnership may conflict with the interests of our shareholders. The nomination and appointment rights of the Alibaba Partnership limits the ability of our shareholders to influence corporate matters, including any matters to be determined by our board of directors. The interests of the Alibaba Partnership may not coincide with the interests of our shareholders, and the Alibaba Partnership or its director nominees may make decisions with which they disagree, including decisions on important topics such as compensation, management succession, acquisition strategy and our business and financial strategy. For example, because the Alibaba Partnership will continue to be largely comprised of members of our management team, the Alibaba Partnership and its director nominees, consistent with our operating philosophy, may focus on the long-term interests of our ecosystem participants at the expense of our short-term financial results, which may differ from the expectations and desires of shareholders unaffiliated with the Alibaba Partnership. To the extent that the interests of the Alibaba Partnership differ from the interests of any of our shareholders, such shareholder may be disadvantaged by any action that the Alibaba Partnership may seek to pursue. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of third parties to acquire control of our company, including: • a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series; • a provision that grants the Alibaba Partnership the right to nominate a simple majority of our board of directors notwithstanding a change of control or merger of our company; and • a classified board with staggered terms that will prevent the replacement of a majority of directors at one time. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, and could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their ADSs, and could also materially decrease the price that some investors are willing to pay for our ADSs. SoftBank owns more than 30% of our outstanding ordinary shares and its interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2015, SoftBank owned approximately 32% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Subject to certain exceptions, SoftBank has agreed to grant the voting power of any portion of its shareholding exceeding 30% of our outstanding ordinary shares to Jack Ma and Joe Tsai by proxy. Under the terms of the voting agreement we entered into with SoftBank, SoftBank also has the right to nominate one member of our board of directors, and Yahoo, Jack and Joe have agreed to vote their shares (including shares for which they have voting 31 Table of Contents power) in favor of the SoftBank director nominees at each annual general shareholders meeting in which the SoftBank nominee stands for election until such time as SoftBank holds less than 15% of our outstanding ordinary shares. SoftBank's director nomination right is also reflected in our articles of association. Except with regard to shareholder votes relating to the Alibaba Partnership director nominees, SoftBank will have significant influence over the outcome of matters that require shareholder votes and accordingly over our business and corporate matters. SoftBank may exercise its shareholder rights in a way that it believes is in its own best interest, which may conflict with the interest of our other shareholders. These actions may be taken even if SoftBank is opposed by our other shareholders. For more information, see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transaction — Transactions and Agreements with SoftBank and Yahoo — Voting Agreement." If the PRC government deems that the contractual arrangements in relation to our variable interest entities do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations changes in the future, we could be subject to penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Foreign ownership of certain types of Internet businesses, such as Internet information services, is subject to restrictions under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. For example, foreign investors are generally not permitted to own more than 50% of the equity interests in a value-added telecommunication service provider. Any such foreign investor must also have experience and a good track record in providing value-added telecommunications services overseas. While the significant majority of our revenue was generated by our wholly-foreign owned enterprises in fiscal year 2014, we provide Internet information services in China, which are critical to our business, through a number of PRC incorporated variable interest entities. The variable interest entities are owned by PRC citizens who are our founders or senior employees or by PRC entities owned by such PRC citizens, or the variable interest entity equity holders, with whom we have contractual arrangements, or the contractual arrangements. The contractual arrangements give us effective control over each of the variable interest entities and enable us to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits arising from the variable interest entities as well as consolidate the financial results of the variable interest entities in our results of operations. Although the structure we have adopted is consistent with longstanding industry practice, and is commonly adopted by comparable companies in China, the PRC government may not agree that these arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. In the opinion of Fangda Partners, our PRC counsel, the ownership structures of our material wholly-foreign owned enterprises and our material variable interest entities in China do not and will not violate any applicable PRC law, regulation or rule currently in effect; and the contractual arrangements between our material wholly-foreign owned enterprises, our material variable interest entities and their respective equity holders governed by PRC law are valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their terms and applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect and will not violate any applicable PRC law, rule or regulation currently in effect. However, Fangda Partners has also advised us that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current PRC laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, the PRC regulatory authorities and PRC courts may in the future take a view that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. It is uncertain whether any new PRC laws, rules or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. Please also see "— Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law." If we or any of our variable interest entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to take action in dealing with such violations or failures, including revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or the variable interest entities, 32 Table of Contents requiring us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restricting our right to collect revenue, blocking one or more of our websites, requiring us to restructure our operations or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions against us. The imposition of any of these measures could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct all or any portion of our business operations. In addition, it is unclear what impact the PRC government actions would have on us and on our ability to consolidate the financial results of any of our variable interest entities in our consolidated financial statements, if the PRC government authorities were to find our legal structure and contractual arrangements to be in violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations. If the imposition of any of these government actions causes us to lose our right to direct the activities of any of our material variable interest entities or otherwise separate from any of these entities and if we are not able to restructure our ownership structure and operations in a satisfactory manner, we would no longer be able to consolidate the financial results of our variable interest entities in our consolidated financial statements. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law. The Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the major existing laws and regulations governing foreign investment in China While the MOFCOM solicited comments on this draft earlier this year, substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the entire legal framework regulating foreign investments in China. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law purports to introduce the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but "controlled" by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity organized in a foreign jurisdiction, but cleared by the MOFCOM as "controlled" by PRC entities and/or citizens, would nonetheless be treated as a PRC domestic entity for investment in the "restriction category" on the "negative list." In this connection, "control" is broadly defined in the draft law to cover any of the following summarized categories: • holding 50% or more of the voting rights or similar equity interest of the subject entity; • holding less than 50% of the voting rights or similar equity interest of the subject entity but having the power to directly or indirectly appoint or otherwise secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to materially influence the board, the shareholders' meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or • having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity's operations, financial, staffing and technology matters. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, and its investment amount exceeds certain thresholds or its business operation falls within a "negative list" purported to be separately issued by the State Council in the future, market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local counterparts would be required. The "variable interest entity" structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us and certain of our equity investees such as Weibo and Youku Tudou, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangements would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors. For any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is in the "restriction category" on the "negative list," the existing VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC state owned enterprises or agencies, or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign 33 Table of Contents nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the "negative list" without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. Based on the definition of "control" in the draft Foreign Investment Law as currently proposed, we believe that there are strong basis for a determination that we and our variable interest entities are ultimately controlled by PRC citizens for the following reasons: • Alibaba Partnership has an exclusive right to nominate and appoint up to a simple majority of the members of our board of directors and therefore effectively controls the board and all management decisions of our company; • nearly all of the partners of Alibaba Partnership are PRC citizens; and • Alibaba Partnership exercises its nomination rights by a majority of votes of all its partners. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — A. Directors and Senior Management — Alibaba Partnership." However, there are significant uncertainties as to how the control status of our company, our variable interest entities and our equity investees with a VIE structure would be determined under the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition, it is uncertain whether any of the businesses that we currently operate or plan to operate in the future through our consolidated entities and the businesses operated by our equity investees with a VIE structure would be on the to-be-issued "negative list" and therefore be subject to any foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions. We also face uncertainties as to whether the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final "negative list" would mandate further actions, such as MOFCOM market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure and whether such clearance can be timely obtained, or at all. If we or our equity investees with a VIE structure were not considered as ultimately controlled by PRC domestic investors under the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law, further actions required to be taken by us or such equity investees under the enacted Foreign Investment Law may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, our corporate governance practice may be materially impacted and our compliance costs could increase if we were not considered as ultimately controlled by PRC domestic investors under the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law as proposed purports to impose stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that would be required for each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report would be mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria would be required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations could potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible could be subject to criminal liabilities. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over the variable interest entities as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities to operate part of our Internet businesses in China and other businesses in which foreign investment is restricted or prohibited. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see "Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure — Contractual Arrangements among Our Wholly-foreign Owned Enterprises, Variable Interest Entities and the Variable Interest Entity Equity Holders." These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our variable interest entities. If we had direct ownership of the variable interest entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as an equity holder directly to effect changes in the boards of directors of those entities, which could effect changes at the management and operational level. Under our contractual arrangements, we may not be able to directly change the members of the boards of directors of these entities and would have to rely on the variable interest entities 34 Table of Contents and the variable interest entity equity holders to perform their obligations in order to exercise our control over the variable interest entities. The variable interest entity equity holders may have conflicts of interest with us or our shareholders, and they may not act in the best interests of our company or may not perform their obligations under these contracts. For example, our variable interest entities and their respective equity holders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to conduct their operations, including maintaining our websites and using our domain names and trademarks which the relevant variable interest entities have exclusive rights to use, in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. Pursuant to the call option, we may replace the equity holders of the variable interest entities at any time pursuant to the contractual arrangements. However, if any equity holder is uncooperative and any dispute relating to these contracts or the replacement of the equity holders remains unresolved, we will have to enforce our rights under the contractual arrangements through the operations of PRC law and arbitral or judicial agencies, which may be costly and time-consuming and will be subject to uncertainties in the PRC legal system. See "— Any failure by our variable interest entities or their equity holders to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations." Consequently, the contractual arrangements may not be as effective in ensuring our control over the relevant portion of our business operations as direct ownership. Any failure by our variable interest entities or their equity holders to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our variable interest entities or their equity holders fail to perform their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce such arrangements. Although we have entered into call option agreements in relation to each variable interest entity, which provide that we may exercise an option to acquire, or nominate a person to acquire, ownership of the equity in that entity or, in some cases, its assets, to the extent permitted by applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, the exercise of these call options is subject to the review and approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities. We have also entered into equity pledge agreements with respect to each variable interest entity to secure certain obligations of such variable interest entity or its equity holders to us under the contractual arrangements. However, the enforcement of such agreements through arbitral or judicial agencies may be costly and time-consuming and will be subject to uncertainties in the PRC legal system. Moreover, our remedies under the equity pledge agreements are primarily intended to help us collect debts owed to us by the variable interest entities or the variable interest entity equity holders under the contractual arrangements and may not help us in acquiring the assets or equity of the variable interest entities. In addition, although the terms of the contractual arrangements provide that they will be binding on the successors of the variable interest entity equity holders, as those successors are not a party to the agreements, it is uncertain whether the successors in case of the death, bankruptcy or divorce of a variable interest entity equity holder will be subject to or will be willing to honor the obligations of such variable interest entity equity holder under the contractual arrangements. If the relevant variable interest entity or its equity holder (or its successor), as applicable, fails to transfer the shares of the variable interest entity according to the respective call option agreement or equity pledge agreement, we would need to enforce our rights under the call option agreement or equity pledge agreement, which may be costly and time-consuming and may not be successful. The contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration or court proceedings in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. Moreover, there are very few precedents and little formal guidance as to how contractual arrangements in the context of a variable interest entity should be interpreted or enforced under PRC law, and as a result it may be difficult to predict how an arbitration panel or court would view such contractual arrangements. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, if the losing parties fail to carry out the arbitration awards or court judgments within a prescribed time limit, the prevailing parties may only 35 Table of Contents enforce the arbitration awards or court judgments in PRC courts, which would require additional expense and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce the contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over the variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected. We may lose the ability to use, or otherwise benefit from, the licenses, approvals and assets held by our variable interest entities, which could severely disrupt our business, render us unable to conduct some or all of our business operations and constrain our growth. Although the significant majority of our revenues are generated, and the significant majority of our operational assets are held, by our wholly-foreign owned enterprises, which are our subsidiaries, our variable interest entities hold licenses and approvals and assets that are necessary for our business operations, as well as equity interests in a series of our portfolio companies, to which foreign investments are typically restricted or prohibited under applicable PRC law. The contractual arrangements contain terms that specifically obligate variable interest entity equity holders to ensure the valid existence of the variable interest entities and restrict the disposal of material assets of the variable interest entities. However, in the event the variable interest entity equity holders breach the terms of these contractual arrangements and voluntarily liquidate our variable interest entities, or any of our variable interest entities declares bankruptcy and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, or are otherwise disposed of without our consent, we may be unable to conduct some or all of our business operations or otherwise benefit from the assets held by the variable interest entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if any of our variable interest entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its equity holders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of the assets of such variable interest entity, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business as well as constrain our growth. The equity holders, directors and executive officers of the variable interest entities, as well as our employees who execute other strategic initiatives may have potential conflicts of interest with our company. PRC laws provide that a director and an executive officer owes a fiduciary duty to the company he or she directs or manages. The directors and executive officers of the variable interest entities, including Jack Ma, our lead founder and executive chairman, must act in good faith and in the best interests of the variable interest entities and must not use their respective positions for personal gain. On the other hand, as a director of our company, Jack has a duty of care and loyalty to our company and to our shareholders as a whole under Cayman Islands law. We control our variable interest entities through contractual arrangements and the business and operations of our variable interest entities are closely integrated with the business and operations of our subsidiaries. Nonetheless, conflicts of interests for these individuals may arise due to dual roles both as directors and executive officers of the variable interest entities and as directors or employees of our company, and may also arise due to dual roles both as variable interest entity equity holders and as directors or employees of our company. We cannot assure you that these individuals will always act in the best interests of our company should any conflicts of interest arise, or that any conflicts of interest will always be resolved in our favor. We also cannot assure you that these individuals will ensure that the variable interest entities will not breach the existing contractual arrangements. If we cannot resolve any such conflicts of interest or any related disputes, we would have to rely on legal proceedings to resolve these disputes and/or take enforcement action under the contractual arrangements. There is substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. See "— Any failure by our variable interest entities or their equity holders to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations." In April 2015, Simon Xie, who is one of our founders and an equity holder in certain of our variable interest entities, was granted a financing with an aggregate principal of up to RMB6.9 billion by a major financial institution in the PRC, which was used to fund a minority investment in Wasu via a PRC limited partnership. A 36 Table of Contents company controlled by Jack Ma serves as one of the general partners of this PRC limited partnership. Yuzhu Shi, the founder, chairman and a principal shareholder of Giant Interactive, a China-based online game company that was previously listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and an entrepreneur with significant experience in and knowledge of the media industry in China, serves as the other general partner. Jack, through his control of one of the general partners, and Mr. Shi, as the other general partner and the executive partner, jointly control this PRC limited partnership. The interest of the general partner controlled by Jack in the limited partnership is limited to a return of its RMB10,000 capital contribution. The financing is secured by a pledge of the Wasu shares acquired by the PRC limited partnership, and a pledge of certain wealth management products we purchased. In addition, we entered into a loan agreement for a principal amount of up to RMB2.0 billion with Simon Xie in April 2015 to finance the repayment by Simon of the interest under the above financing. We expect that these arrangements will facilitate our entering into and strengthen strategic business arrangements with Wasu to pursue our strategy of expanding entertainment offerings to our customers. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Recent Investment, Acquisition and Strategic Alliance Activities — Entertainment — Wasu" and "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions — Loan Arrangement with a Related Party." We cannot assure you that Jack Ma or Simon Xie will act in our interest given Jack's ability to control one of the general partners of the PRC limited partnership and Simon's economic interests as a limited partner of the PRC limited partnership that invested in Wasu, respectively, nor can we assure you that they will not breach their respective obligations to us as our director and executive officer, in the case of Jack, or as our employee, in the case of Simon, including their respective obligations not to compete with us pursuant to the terms of their employment agreements. In addition, the interests of Mr. Shi, as an independent third party, may not coincide with those of Jack as the other general partner in the PRC limited partnership that made the investment, or with our interests in pursuing our entertainment strategy. If any such conflicts arise between Jack and Mr. Shi in conducting the business of the PRC limited partnership, it could potentially have a material adverse effect on our relationship with the shareholder of Wasu and, consequently, on our ability to achieve the strategic objectives of our alliance with Wasu. Furthermore, there is no assurance that Simon will have sufficient resources to repay the loans in a timely manner or at all. The loan that we provided to Simon is secured by a pledge of Simon's limited partnership interest in the PRC limited partnership. However, if Simon fails to repay the loan, our enforcement of such secured interests could be costly and time-consuming and would be subject to the uncertainties in the PRC legal system. The contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. Any adjustment of related party transaction pricing could lead to additional taxes, and therefore substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. The tax regime in China is rapidly evolving and there is significant uncertainty for taxpayers in China as PRC tax laws may be interpreted in significantly different ways. The PRC tax authorities may assert that we or our subsidiaries or the variable interest entities or their equity holders are required to pay additional taxes on previous or future revenue or income. In particular, under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties, such as the contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities, may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that any contractual arrangements were not entered into on an arm's length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing, the PRC tax liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries and/or variable interest entities and/or variable interest entity equity holders could be increased, which could increase our overall tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment interest. Our net income may be materially reduced if our tax liabilities increase. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in the People's Republic of China Changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to sustain our growth and expansion strategies. Most of our operations are conducted in the PRC and substantially all of our revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant extent by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, regulating financial services and institutions and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, the PRC government has implemented in the past certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws, rules and regulations. Most of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and are governed by PRC laws, rules and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws, rules and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws, rules and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China or may be subject to significant degree of interpretation by PRC regulatory agencies and courts. In particular, because these laws, rules and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited number of published decisions and the non-precedential nature of such decisions, and because the laws, rules and regulations often give the relevant regulator significant discretion in how to enforce them, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations involve uncertainties and can be inconsistent and unpredictable. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, and which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until after the occurrence of the violation. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more 38 Table of Contents developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations regarding acquisitions impose significant regulatory approval and review requirements, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. Under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law, companies undertaking acquisitions relating to businesses in China must notify MOFCOM, in advance of any transaction where the parties' revenues in the China market exceed certain thresholds and the buyer would obtain control of, or decisive influence over, the target. In addition, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which came into effect on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. Under the M&A Rules, the approval of MOFCOM must be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire domestic companies affiliated with such PRC enterprises or residents. Applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to security review. Due to the level of our revenues, our proposed acquisition of control of, or decisive influence over, any company with revenues within China of more than RMB400 million in the year prior to any proposed acquisition would be subject to MOFCOM merger control review. As a result of our size, many of the transactions we may undertake could be subject to MOFCOM merger review. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, MOFCOM has not accepted antitrust filings for any transaction involving parties that adopt a variable interest entity structure. If MOFCOM's practice remains unchanged, our ability to carry out our investment and acquisition strategy may be materially and adversely affected and there may be significant uncertainty as to whether transactions that we may undertake would subject us to fines or other administrative penalties and negative publicity and whether we will be able to complete large acquisitions in the future in a timely manner or at all. PRC regulations relating to investments in offshore companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC-resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries or limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits. SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents' Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, on July 4, 2014, which replaced the former circular commonly known as "SAFE Circular 75" promulgated by SAFE on October 21, 2005. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents' legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a "special purpose vehicle." SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange controls. We have notified substantial beneficial owners of ordinary shares who we know are PRC residents of their filing obligation, and we have periodically filed SAFE Circular 75 reports prior to the promulgation of SAFE 39 Table of Contents Circular 37 on behalf of certain employee shareholders who we know are PRC residents. However, we may not be aware of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents. We do not have control over our beneficial owners and cannot assure you that all of our PRC-resident beneficial owners will comply with SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to register or amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules, or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules, may subject such beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions. On February 28, 2015, SAFE promulgated a Notice on Further Simplifying and Improving Foreign Exchange Administration Policy on Direct Investment, or SAFE Notice 13, which became effective on June 1, 2015. Pursuant to SAFE Notice 13, entities and individuals are required to apply for foreign exchange registration of foreign direct investment and overseas direct investment, including those required under the SAFE Circular 37, with qualified banks, instead of SAFE. The qualified banks, under the supervision of SAFE, will directly review the applications and conduct the registration. Furthermore, since it is unclear how those new SAFE regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. Failure to register or comply with relevant requirements may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries and limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends to our company. These risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding our employee equity incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to SAFE Circular 37, PRC residents who participate in share incentive plans in overseas non-publicly-listed companies may submit applications to SAFE or its local branches for the foreign exchange registration with respect to offshore special purpose companies. Our directors, executive officers and other employees who are PRC citizens or who have resided in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year and who have been granted restricted shares, RSUs or options may follow SAFE Circular 37 to apply for the foreign exchange registration. We and our directors, executive officers and other employees who are PRC citizens or who have resided in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year and who have been granted restricted shares, RSUs or options are subject to the Notice on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly Listed Company, issued by SAFE in February 2012, according to which, employees, directors, supervisors and other management members participating in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly listed company who are PRC citizens or who are non-PRC citizens residing in China for a continuous period of not less than one year, subject to limited exceptions, are required to register with SAFE through a domestic qualified agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company, and complete certain other procedures. Failure to complete the SAFE registrations may subject them to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit the ability to make payment under our equity incentive plans or receive dividends or sales proceeds related thereto, or our ability to contribute additional capital into our wholly-foreign owned enterprises in China and limit our wholly-foreign owned enterprises' ability to distribute dividends to us. We also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity incentive plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. In addition, the State Administration for Taxation has issued circulars concerning employee share options, restricted shares or RSUs. Under these circulars, employees working in the PRC who exercise share options, or whose restricted shares or RSUs vest, will be subject to PRC individual income tax. The PRC subsidiaries of an overseas listed company have obligations to file documents related to employee share options or restricted shares with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees related to their share options, restricted shares or RSUs. Although we currently withhold income tax from our PRC employees in connection with their exercise of options and the vesting of their restricted shares and RSUs, if the employees fail to pay, or the PRC subsidiaries fail to withhold, their income taxes according to relevant laws, rules and regulations, the PRC subsidiaries may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities. 40 Table of Contents We rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries in China to fund offshore cash and financing requirements. We are a holding company and rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiaries and on remittances from the variable interest entities, for our offshore cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, fund inter-company loans, service any debt we may incur outside of China and pay our expenses. When our principal operating subsidiaries or the variable interest entities incur additional debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions or remittances to us. Furthermore, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our PRC subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries permit payments of dividends only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, each of our subsidiaries incorporated in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves, together with the registered equity, are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result of these laws, rules and regulations, our subsidiaries incorporated in China are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their respective net assets to their shareholders as dividends. In addition, registered share capital and capital reserve accounts are also restricted from withdrawal in the PRC, up to the amount of net assets held in each operating subsidiary. As of March 31, 2015, these restricted assets totaled RMB26,902 million (US$4,340 million). Limitations on the ability of the variable interest entities to make remittance to the wholly-foreign owned enterprises to pay dividends to us could limit our ability to access cash generated by the operations of those entities, including to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends to our shareholders or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The services conducted by our wholly-foreign owned enterprises might be regarded as a form of online advertising or as part of services requiring an Internet content provider license or other licenses and subjecting us to other laws, rules and regulations as well as increased taxes. Our pay-for-performance, or P4P, services and other related services are currently not classified as a form of online advertising in China or as part of services requiring an ICP license or other licenses. We conduct our P4P and other related business through our wholly-foreign owned enterprises in the PRC, which are not qualified to operate an online advertising business and do not hold an ICP license. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not classify our P4P and other related services as a form of online advertising or as part of services requiring an ICP license or other licenses in the future. If new regulations characterize our P4P and other related services as a form of online advertising or as part of ICP services requiring an ICP license or other licenses, we may have to conduct our P4P business through the variable interest entities, which are qualified to operate online advertising business and hold ICP or other licenses. If we conducted our P4P business through the variable interest entities, we may face increased scrutiny from the tax authorities and may incur additional taxes on any services fees paid by the variable interest entities to the wholly-foreign owned enterprises. In addition, advertising services are subject to a cultural construction fee under PRC law, which is a 3% surcharge in addition to the applicable value-added tax. If our P4P and other related services were to be considered a form of online advertising, our revenue from those services would be subject to the 3% surcharge. If that were to occur, our margins would decline and our net income could be reduced. In addition, the substantial revenue streams attributable to our P4P services would then be collected from variable interest entities and subject to the risks associated with the variable interest entities. If the change in classification of our P4P and other related services were to be retroactively applied, we might be subject to sanctions, including payment of delinquent taxes and late payment interest. Moreover, PRC advertising laws, rules and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute is fair and accurate and is in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws, rules or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and 41 Table of Contents orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator's license for operating an advertising business. In addition, for advertising content related to specific types of products and services, advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors must confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals, including the advertiser's operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. If we become subject to PRC advertising laws, we would need to take steps to monitor, and to ensure that our third-party marketing affiliates monitor, the content of any advertisements displayed on our platforms. This could require considerable resources and time, and could significantly affect the operation of our business, while also subjecting us to increased liability under the relevant laws, rules and regulations. The costs associated with complying with such laws, rules and regulations, including any penalties or fines for our failure to so comply if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any change in the classification of our P4P and other related services by the PRC government may also significantly disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, and we may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which came into effect on January 1, 2008, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside of China with "de facto management bodies" located in China may be considered PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes and may be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their global income. "De facto management body" refers to a managing body that exercises substantive and overall management and control over the production and business, personnel, accounting books and assets of an enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore-Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the "de facto management body" of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by foreign enterprises or individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation's general position on how the "de facto management body" test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises. Currently, we generate only a small portion of our revenues offshore. However, if this proportion were to increase and if we were to be considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our global income. In such case, our profitability and cash flow may be materially reduced as a result of our global income being taxed under the Enterprise Income Tax Law. We believe that none of our entities outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. However, the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term "de facto management body." Dividends payable to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares by our foreign investors may become subject to PRC taxation. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC withholding tax is applicable to dividends payable by a resident enterprise to investors that are non-resident enterprises, which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but the dividends are not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to PRC tax at a current rate of 10%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in relevant tax treaties, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends paid on our ordinary shares or ADSs, and any gain realized by the investors from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income 42 Table of Contents derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC taxation. See "Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Tax Regulations." Furthermore, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends payable to individual investors who are non-PRC residents and any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors may be subject to PRC tax at a current rate of 20%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in applicable tax treaties. It is unclear whether if we or any of our subsidiaries established outside China are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas and to claim foreign tax credit if applicable. If dividends payable to our non-PRC investors, or gains from the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors are subject to PRC tax, the value of your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may decline significantly. Discontinuation of preferential tax treatments we currently enjoy or other unfavorable changes in tax law could result in additional compliance obligations and costs. Operating in the high-technology and software industry, a number of our China operating entities enjoy various types of preferential tax treatment according to the prevailing PRC tax laws. Our PRC subsidiaries may, if they meet the relevant requirements, qualify for three main types of preferential treatment, which are high and new technology enterprises, software enterprises and key software enterprises within the scope of the PRC national plan. For a qualified high and new technology enterprise, the applicable enterprise income tax rate is 15%. The high and new technology enterprise qualification is re-assessed by the relevant authorities every three years. Moreover, a qualified software enterprise is entitled to a tax holiday consisting of a two-year tax exemption beginning from the first profit-making calendar year and a 50% tax reduction for the subsequent three calendar years. The software enterprise qualification is subject to an annual assessment. For a qualified key software enterprise within the scope of the PRC national plan, the applicable enterprise income tax rate for a calendar year is 10%. The key software enterprise qualification is subject to an assessment every two years. Our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2015 was 19.8%. The discontinuation of any of the various types of preferential tax treatment we enjoy could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Taxation — PRC Income Tax." We and our shareholders face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises or other assets attributed to a PRC establishment of a non-PRC company, or other assets attributable to a PRC establishment of a non-PRC company. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin on Issues of Enterprise Income Tax and Indirect Transfers of Assets by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Bulletin 7, which replaced or supplemented certain previous rules under the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, on December 10, 2009. Pursuant to this Bulletin, an "indirect transfer" of assets, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding payment of PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. According to Bulletin 7, "PRC taxable assets" include assets attributed to an establishment in China, immoveable properties located in China, and equity investments in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. When determining whether there is a "reasonable commercial purpose" of the transaction arrangement, factors to be taken into consideration include: whether the main value of the equity interest of the relevant offshore enterprise derives from PRC taxable assets; whether the assets of the relevant offshore enterprise mainly consists of direct or indirect investment in China or if its income mainly derives from China; whether the offshore enterprise and its subsidiaries directly or indirectly holding PRC taxable assets have real commercial nature which is evidenced by their actual function and risk exposure; the duration of existence of the business 43 Table of Contents model and organizational structure; the replicability of the transaction by direct transfer of PRC taxable assets; and the tax situation of such indirect transfer and applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements. In respect of an indirect offshore transfer of assets of a PRC establishment, the resulting gain is to be included with the enterprise income tax filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Where the underlying transfer relates to the immoveable properties located in China or to equity investments in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to available preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, and the party who is obligated to make the transfer payments has the withholding obligation. Where the payor fails to withhold any or sufficient tax, the transferor shall declare and pay such tax to the tax authority by itself within the statutory time limit. Late payment of applicable tax will subject the transferor to default interest. Bulletin 7 does not apply to transactions of sale of shares by investors through a public stock exchange where such shares were acquired from a transaction through a public stock exchange. There are uncertainties as to the application of Bulletin 7. As Bulletin 7 was promulgated recently, it is not clear how it will be implemented. Bulletin 7 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to some of our offshore restructuring transactions or sale of the shares of our offshore subsidiaries or investments where PRC taxable assets are involved. The transferors and transferees may be subject to the tax filing and withholding or tax payment obligation, while our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing. Furthermore, we, our non-resident enterprises and PRC subsidiaries may be required to spend valuable resources to comply with Bulletin 7 or to establish that we and our non-resident enterprises should not be taxed under Bulletin 7, for our previous and future restructuring or disposal of shares of our offshore subsidiaries, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Bulletin 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under Bulletin 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions or disposals will increase, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenue effectively. Substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the "current account," which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the "capital account," which includes foreign direct investment and loans, including loans we may secure from our onshore subsidiaries or variable interest entities. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries, which are wholly-foreign owned enterprises, may purchase foreign currency for settlement of "current account transactions," including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future for current account transactions. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of the PRC or pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account remain subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect our ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing for our subsidiaries and the variable interest entities. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses and could materially reduce the value of your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against 44 Table of Contents the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the RMB to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, and it has appreciated more than 10% since June 2010. In April 2012, the PRC government announced that it would allow more RMB exchange rate fluctuation. However, it remains unclear how this announcement might be implemented. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in Renminbi while a significant portion of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars. We are a holding company and we rely on dividends paid by our operating subsidiaries in China for our cash needs. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially reduce any dividends payable on our ADSs in U.S. dollars. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount we would receive. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected fully by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, our shareholders are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, PricewaterhouseCoopers is required under the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB. However, because we have substantial operations within the People's Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese government authorities, our auditor and its audit work is not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditors' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work undertaken in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, shareholders may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the mainland Chinese affiliates of the "big four" accounting firms, including the affiliate of our auditor, and also against Dahua, the former BDO affiliate in China. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to the failure of these firms to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in China are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the CSRC. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to the Chinese affiliate of our auditor or to us, but potentially affect equally all PCAOB-registered audit firms based in China and all businesses based in China (or with substantial operations in China) with securities listed in the United States. In addition, auditors based outside of China are subject to similar restrictions under PRC law and CSRC directives in respect of audit work that is carried out in China which supports the audit opinions issued on financial statements of entities with substantial China operations. 45 Table of Contents In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an initial decision that the China-based affiliates of the "big four" accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. In February 2014, the accounting firms filed a petition for review of the initial decision. In February 2015, each of the "big four" accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay fine to the SEC to settle the dispute with the SEC. The settlement stays the current proceeding for four years, during which time the firms are required to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms' audit documents via the CSRC. If a firm does not follow the procedures, the SEC would impose penalties such as suspensions, or commence a new, expedited administrative proceeding against the non-compliant firm or it could restart the administrative proceeding against all four firms. If the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC, we would need to consider with our Hong Kong based auditor the alternate support arrangements they would need in their audit of our operations in China. If our auditor were unable to have alternate support or otherwise were unable to address issues related to the production of documents pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and we were unable to timely find another independent registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange or deregistration from the SEC, or both. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may adversely affect investor confidence in companies with substantial mainland China based operations listed in the U.S. All these would materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to our ADS The trading prices of our ADSs has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to our shareholders. The trading price of our ADSs has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines after their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies' securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards other PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons, including: • variations in our results of operations; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings; • publication of operating or industry metrics, such as GMV, by third parties, including government statistical agencies, that differ from expectations of industry or financial analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • announcements made by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • press reports, whether or not true, about our business; • regulatory allegations or actions or negative publicity against us, regardless of their veracity; • changes in pricing made by us or our competitors; • conditions in the online retail market; • additions to or departures of our management; 46 Table of Contents • fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived potential sales of existing or additional ordinary shares or ADSs, including as a result of Yahoo's proposed spin-off of our ordinary shares that it holds; • the creation of vehicles that hold our ordinary shares, such as Yahoo's proposed spin-off of our ordinary shares that it holds; • changes or developments in the PRC or global regulatory environment; and • the outcome of proceedings recently instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies and industries. These fluctuations may include a so-called "bubble market" in which investors temporarily raise the price of the stocks of companies in certain industries, such as the e-commerce industry, to unsustainable levels. These market fluctuations may significantly affect the trading price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. We have been named as a defendant in certain purported shareholder class action lawsuits described in "Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings." The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. If adversely determined, the class action suits may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs, ordinary shares or other equity securities in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline significantly. Sales of our ADSs, ordinary shares or other equity securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline significantly. As of March 31, 2015, we had 2,495,499,036 ordinary shares outstanding, including 831,246,794 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. A substantial majority of our then-outstanding ordinary shares that have not been converted to ADSs are subject to lock-up agreements with various release dates. By September 2015, all these ordinary shares will no longer be subject to any lock-up arrangement and may be freely converted into ADSs from time to time. The remaining ordinary shares will be available for sale, upon the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. Any or all of these shares may be released prior to the expiration of the applicable lock-up period at the discretion of one of the designated representatives. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the applicable lock-up period and sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline significantly. Certain major holders of our ordinary shares will have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares, subject to the applicable lock-up periods. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the form of ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline significantly. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. It is our policy not to offer guidance on earnings. The trading market for our ADSs will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If research analysts do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our ADSs or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs 47 Table of Contents would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline significantly. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and the ADSs. We are exempted from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by domestic U.S. companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we are not required to: • have a majority of the board be independent (although all of the members of the audit committee must be independent under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have a compensation committee or a nominating or corporate governance committee consisting entirely of independent directors; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions for non-management directors; or • have executive sessions of solely independent directors each year. We have relied on and intend to continue to rely on some of these exemptions. As a result, our shareholders may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain disclosure requirements under the Exchange Act, which may afford less protection to our shareholders than they would enjoy if we were a domestic U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from, among other things, the rules prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements under the Exchange Act. In addition, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit and recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We are also not required under the Exchange Act to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as domestic U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they would under the Exchange Act rules applicable to domestic U.S. companies. If and when permitted by law, we may conduct a public offering and listing of our shares in China, which may result in increased regulatory scrutiny and compliance costs as well as increased fluctuations in the prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs listed in overseas markets. Although not currently allowed under PRC law, if and when permitted by law, we may conduct a public offering and/or listing of our shares on a stock exchange in China in the future. We have not set a specific timetable or decided on any specific form for an offering in China. The precise timing of the offering and/or listing of our shares in China would depend on a number of factors, including relevant regulatory developments and market conditions. If we complete a public offering or listing in China, we would become subject to the applicable laws, rules and regulations governing public companies listed in China, in addition to the various laws, rules and regulations that we are subject to in the United States as a reporting company. The listing and trading of our securities in multiple jurisdictions and multiple markets may lead to increased compliance costs for us, and we may face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in these jurisdictions and markets. In addition, under current PRC laws, rules and regulations, our ordinary shares will not be interchangeable or fungible with any shares we may decide to list on a PRC stock exchange, and there is no trading or settlement between these markets in the United States and mainland China. Furthermore, these two markets have different trading characteristics and investor bases, including different levels of retail and institutional participation. As a 48 Table of Contents result of these differences, the trading prices of our ADSs, accounting for the share-to-ADS ratio, may not be the same as the trading prices of any shares we may decide to list on a PRC stock exchange. The issuance of a separate class of shares and fluctuations in its trading price may also lead to increased volatility in, and may otherwise materially decrease, the prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and most of our directors and all of our executive officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly-foreign owned enterprises and the variable interest entities. Most of our directors and all of our executive officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that they believe that their rights have been infringed under the securities laws of the United States or otherwise. Even if shareholders are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render them unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States or China, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, shareholders in Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. In addition, our articles of association provide that in the event that any shareholder initiates or asserts any claim or counterclaim against us, or joins, offers substantial assistance to or has a direct financial interest in any claim or counterclaim against us, and does not obtain a judgment on the merits in which the initiating or asserting party prevails, then the shareholder will be obligated to reimburse us for all fees, costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, all reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigation expenses) that we may incur in connection with such claim or counterclaim. These fees, costs and expenses that may be shifted to a shareholder under this provision are potentially significant and this fee-shifting provision is not limited to specific types of actions, but is rather potentially applicable to the fullest extent permitted by law. Our fee-shifting provision may dissuade or discourage our shareholders (and their attorneys) from initiating lawsuits or claims against us or may impact the fees, contingency or otherwise, required by attorneys to represent our shareholders. Fee-shifting provisions such as ours are relatively new and untested. We cannot assure you that we will or will not invoke our fee-shifting provision in any particular dispute, or that we will be successful in obtaining fees if we choose to invoke the provision. As a result of the foregoing, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 49 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of our ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may exercise their voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from them in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary for our ADSs will endeavor to vote their underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders' meeting to permit them to withdraw their ordinary shares to allow them to cast their votes with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to holders of our ADSs or carry out their voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but they may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their rights to vote and they may lack recourse if the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as they requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs if holders of such ADSs do not vote at shareholders' meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect the interests of holders of our ADSs. Under the deposit agreement for our ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs at shareholders' meetings if holders of such ADSs do not give voting instructions to the depositary, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that, if holders of our ADSs fail to give voting instructions to the depositary, they cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying their ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence our management. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of our ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to them. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares that their ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible for making such payments or 50 Table of Contents distributions if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. These restrictions may materially reduce the value of the ADSs. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming and costly to us, either or both of which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial performance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. These requirements and our efforts to comply with these requirements may divert management's attention from other business concerns and we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There could be adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors if we were or were to become a passive foreign investment company. While we do not believe we are or will become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, there can be no assurance that we were not a PFIC in the past and will not become a PFIC in the future. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes if either: (1) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (2) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. See "Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company." Although we do not believe we were or will become a PFIC, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between us and our variable interest entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules. If it were determined that we do not own the stock of our variable interest entities for United States federal income tax purposes (for instance, because the relevant PRC authorities do not respect these arrangements), we may be treated as a PFIC. See "Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company." If we were or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to our shareholders that are United States investors. For example, if we are a PFIC, our United States investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under United States federal income tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. We cannot assure you that we were not or will not become a PFIC for any taxable year. You are urged to consult your own tax advisors concerning United States federal income tax consequence on the application of the PFIC rules. See "Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company." 51 Table of Contents 