Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity could me materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations Our business model may not be successful. We may change our investment strategy and financing policy in the future and any such changes may not be successful. There can be no assurance that any business model or business plan of ours will prove accurate, that our management team will be able to implement such business model or business plan successfully in the future or that we will achieve our performance objectives. Any business model of ours, including any underlying assumptions and predictions, merely reflect our assessment of the short and long-term prospects of the business, finance and real estate markets in which we operate and should not be relied upon in determining whether to invest in our Class A common stock. We have discretion regarding the assets we originate or acquire, and our management team is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines and has great latitude within those guidelines to determine which assets make proper investments for us. In addition, at its discretion, our Board may change our investment, financing or other strategies without a shareholder vote. We are dependent on our management team, and loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We heavily depend upon the skills and experience of our management team. The loss of the services of one or more of such individuals could have an adverse effect on our operations, and in such case we will be subject to the risk that no suitable replacement can be found. Furthermore, any termination of a member of the management team may be difficult and costly for us and create obligations for us to the departing individual. If we are unable to staff our management team fully with individuals who possess the skills and experience necessary to excel in their positions our business may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if one or more members of our management team is no longer employed by us, our ability to obtain future financing could be affected which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified loan originators or grow and maintain our relationships with key loan brokers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to implement our business and growth strategies could be limited. We depend on our loan originators to generate borrower clients by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial property owners, real estate agents and brokers, developers and others, which we believe leads to repeat and referral business. Accordingly, we must be able to attract, motivate and retain skilled loan originators. The market for loan originators is highly competitive and may lead to increased costs to hire and retain them. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified loan originators. If we cannot attract, motivate or retain a sufficient number of skilled loan originators, at a reasonable cost or at all, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We also depend on our network of loan brokers, who generate a significant portion of our loan originations. While we strive to cultivate long-standing relationships that generate repeat business for us, brokers are free to transact business with other lenders and have done so in the past and will do so in the future. Our competitors also have relationships with some of our 23 Table of Contents brokers and actively compete with us in bidding on loans shopped by these brokers. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or develop new relationships with additional brokers. The allocation of capital among our business lines may vary, which will affect our financial performance. In executing our business plan, we regularly consider the allocation of capital to our various commercial real estate business lines. The allocation of capital among such business lines may vary due to market conditions, the expected relative return on equity of each activity, the judgment of our management team, the demand in the marketplace for commercial real estate loans and securities and the availability of specific investment opportunities. We also consider the availability and cost of our likely sources of capital. If we fail to appropriately allocate capital and resources across our business lines or fail to optimize our investment and capital raising opportunities, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Our access to the CMBS securitization market and the timing of our securitization activities and other factors may greatly affect our quarterly financial results. We expect to distribute the conduit loans we originate through securitizations and, upon completion of a securitization, we will recognize certain non-interest revenues which are included in total other income on our consolidated statements of income and cease to earn net interest income on the securitized loans. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied substantially from quarter to quarter based on the frequency, volume and timing of our securitizations. Our securitization activities will be affected by a number of factors, including our loan origination volumes, changes in loan values, quality and performance during the period such loans are on our books and conditions in the securitization and credit markets generally and at the time we seek to launch and complete our securitizations. As a result of these quarterly variations, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not provide an accurate comparison of our current period results of operations. If securities analysts or investors focus on such comparative quarter-to-quarter performance, our stock price performance may be more volatile than if such persons compared a wider period of results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our joint ventures and strategic business alliances. We often rely on other third-party companies for assistance in origination, warehousing, distribution, securitization and other finance-related and loan-related activities. Some of our business may be conducted through non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures in which we share control (in whole or in part) and strategic alliances formed by us with other strategic or business partners that we do not control. There can be no assurance that any of these strategic or business partners will continue their relationships with us in the future or that we will be able to pursue our stated strategies with respect to non wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, strategic alliances and the markets in which we operate. Our ability to influence our partners in joint ventures or strategic alliances may be limited, and non-alignment of interests on various strategic decisions in joint ventures or strategic alliances may adversely impact our business. Furthermore, joint venture or strategic alliance partners may (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (iii) undergo a change of control; (iv) experience financial and other difficulties; or (v) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under a joint venture or strategic alliance, which may affect our financial conditions or results of operations. We may face difficulties in obtaining required authorizations or licenses to do business. In order to implement our business strategies, we may be required to obtain, maintain or renew certain licenses and authorizations (including "doing business" authorizations and licenses with respect to loan origination) from certain governmental entities. While we do not anticipate any delays or other 24 Table of Contents complications relating to such licenses and authorizations, there is no assurance that any particular license or authorization will be obtained, maintained or renewed quickly or at all. Any failure of ours to obtain, maintain or renew such authorizations or licenses may adversely affect our business. The accuracy of our financial statements may be materially affected if our estimates, including loan loss reserves, prove to be inaccurate. Financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. Different estimates, judgments and assumptions reasonably could be used that would have a material effect on the financial statements, and changes in these estimates, judgments and assumptions are likely to occur from period to period in the future. Significant areas of accounting requiring the application of management's judgment include, but are not limited to (i) assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, (ii) determining the fair value of investment securities and (iii) assessing other than temporary impairments on real estate securities. These estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently uncertain, especially in turbulent economic times, and, if they prove to be wrong, then we face the risk that charges to income will be required. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. We depend on our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements in order to run our business. If we fail to do so, our business could be negatively affected and our independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to attest to the accuracy of our financial statements. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis by the Company's internal controls. A significant deficiency is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of a registrant's financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected, on a timely basis by the Company's internal controls. Although we continuously monitor the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses will not occur in the future. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in the future, it could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could cause stakeholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We may be subject to "lender liability" litigation. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed "lender liability." Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. We cannot assure you that such claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type were to arise. 25 Table of Contents Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, from time to time, subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business and industry. We may be subject to various legal proceedings and these proceedings may range from actions involving a single plaintiff to class action lawsuits. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found not liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our corporate insurance policies will mitigate all insurable losses, costs or damages to our business. Based on our history and type of business, we believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage to cover probable and reasonably estimable liabilities should they arise. However, there can be no assurance that these estimates will prove to be sufficient, nor can there be any assurance that the ultimate outcome of any claim or event will not have a material negative impact on our business prospects, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As an "emerging growth company" under the JOBS Act we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have not made a decision whether to take advantage of all of these exemptions. If we do take advantage of any of these exemptions, we do not know if some investors will find our securities less attractive as a result. The result may be a less active trading market for our securities and our security prices may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an "emerging growth company" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an "emerging growth company" can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to "opt out" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We could remain an "emerging growth company" for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we become a "large accelerated filer" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by nonaffiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt during the preceding three year period. 26 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. Following our IPO, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the New York Stock Exchange rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required, and management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Furthermore, because of our relative inexperience in operating as a public company, we might not be successful in implementing these requirements. The increased costs of compliance with public company reporting requirements and our potential failure to satisfy these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Market Risks Related to Real Estate Securities and Loans We have a concentration of investments in the real estate sector and may have concentrations from time to time in certain property types, locations, tenants and borrowers, which may increase our exposure to the risks of certain economic downturns. We operate in the commercial real estate sector. Such concentration in one economic sector may increase the volatility of our returns and may also expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our portfolio also included other sectors of the economy. Declining real estate values may reduce the level of new mortgage and other real estate-related loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the value of real estate weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to over our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate/acquire/sell loans, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business. In addition, we are not required to observe specific diversification criteria relating to property types, locations, tenants or borrowers. A limited degree of diversification increases risk because the aggregate return of our business may be adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a single property type, single tenant, single market or even a single investment. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of our assets within a short time period. Additionally, borrower concentration, in which a particular borrower is, or a group of related borrowers are, associated with multiple real properties securing mortgage loans or securities held by us, magnifies the risks presented by the possible poor performance of such borrower(s). 27 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market for lending and investment opportunities, which may limit our ability to originate or acquire desirable loans and investments in our target assets. We operate in a highly competitive market for lending and investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of loans and investments that we seek to make. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to originate or acquire target assets at attractive prices. In originating or acquiring target assets, we compete with a variety of institutional lenders and investors and many other market participants, including specialty finance companies, real estate investment trusts ("REITs"), commercial banks and thrift institutions, investment banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and other financial institutions. Many competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Several other finance companies have raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create additional competition for lending and investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. Many of our competitors are not subject to the maintenance of an exemption from the Investment Company Act. Furthermore, competition for originations of, and investments in, our target assets may lead to the yield of such assets decreasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. Also, as a result of this competition, desirable loans and investments in specific types of target assets may be limited in the future and we may not be able to take advantage of attractive lending and investment opportunities from time to time. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and originate loans or make any or all of the types of investments that are described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our investment guidelines and underwriting guidelines may restrict our ability to compete with others for desirable commercial mortgage loan origination and acquisition opportunities. We have investment guidelines and underwriting guidelines with respect to commercial mortgage loan origination and acquisition opportunities. Additionally, under our credit facilities, the lenders have the right to review the assets which we are seeking to finance and approve the purchase and financing of such assets in their sole discretion. These investment and underwriting guidelines and lender approvals may restrict us from being able to compete with others for commercial mortgage loan origination and acquisition opportunities and these guidelines may be stricter than the guidelines employed by our competitors. As a result, we may not be able to compete with others for desirable commercial mortgage loan origination and acquisition opportunities. In addition, these investment and underwriting guidelines and approvals impose conditions and limitations on our ability to originate certain of our target assets, including, in particular, restrictions on our ability to originate junior mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments. Our earnings may decrease because of changes in prevailing interest rates. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to the yield on our assets and the financing cost of our debt, as well as the interest rate swaps that we utilize for hedging purposes. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations. Interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates, variances in the yield curve and fluctuating prepayment rates, and such fluctuations may adversely affect our income and may generate losses. 28 Table of Contents Prepayment rates on mortgage loans cannot be predicted with certainty and prepayments may result in losses to the value of our assets. The frequency at which prepayments (including voluntary prepayments by the borrowers and liquidations due to defaults and foreclosures) occur on our investments can adversely impact our business, and prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty, making it impossible to completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. Any adverse effects of prepayments may impact our portfolio in that particular investments, which may experience outright losses in an environment of faster actual or anticipated prepayments or may underperform relative to hedges that the management team may have constructed for such investments (resulting in a loss to our overall portfolio). Additionally, borrowers are more likely to prepay when the prevailing level of interest rates falls, thereby exposing us to the risk that the prepayment proceeds may be reinvested only at a lower interest rate than that borne by the prepaid obligation. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the real estate industry generally and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future terrorist attacks could have on us. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the United States and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our assets and harm our financial condition and results of operations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. The economic impact of such events could also adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments and the property underlying our securities. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. The events of September 11, 2001 created significant uncertainty regarding the ability of real estate owners of high profile assets to obtain insurance coverage protecting against terrorist attacks at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. With the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the "TRIA") and the subsequent enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, which extended the TRIA through the end of 2014, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, but this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to acquire assets. If the properties underlying our interests are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of our interests could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our assets. Risks Related to Our Portfolio The value of our investments, including the CMBS in which we invest, may be adversely affected by many factors that are beyond our control. Income from, and the value of, our investments may be adversely affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: •volatility and adverse changes in international, national and local economic and market conditions, including contractions in market liquidity for mortgage loans and mortgage related assets; 29 Table of Contents •changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; •changes in generally accepted accounting principles; •changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; •downturns in the markets for residential mortgage-backed securities and other asset backed and structured products; and •civil unrest, terrorism, acts of war, nuclear or radiological disasters and natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, tsunamis and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. In addition to other analytical tools, our management team utilizes financial models to evaluate loans and real estate assets, the accuracy and effectiveness of which cannot be guaranteed. In all cases, financial models are only estimates of future results which are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed. There can be no assurance that management's projected results will be obtained and actual results may vary significantly from the projections. General economic and industry-specific conditions, which are not predictable, can have an adverse impact on the reliability of projections. The vast majority of the mortgage loans that we originate or purchase, and those underlying the CMBS in which we invest, are nonrecourse loans and the assets securing the loans may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if the borrower defaults on the loan. Except for customary nonrecourse carve-outs for certain actions and environmental liability, most commercial mortgage loans, including those underlying the CMBS in which we invest, are effectively nonrecourse obligations of the sponsor and borrower, meaning that there is no recourse against the assets of the borrower or sponsor other than the underlying collateral. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. Even if a mortgage loan is recourse to the borrower (or if a nonrecourse carve-out to the borrower applies), in most cases, the borrower's assets are limited primarily to its interest in the related mortgaged property. Further, although a mortgage loan may provide for limited recourse to a principal or affiliate of the related borrower, there is no assurance of any recovery from such principal or affiliate will be made or that such principal's or affiliate's assets would be sufficient to pay any otherwise recoverable claim. In the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. The commercial mortgage and other commercial real estate-related loans, and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which we may invest, are subject to the ability of the commercial property owner to generate net income from operating the property (and not the independent income or assets of the borrower). The volatility of real property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Commercial mortgage loans and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the securities in which we may invest are subject to the ability of the commercial property owner to general net income from operating the property (and not the independent income or assets of the borrower). Any reductions in net operating income ("NOI") increase the risks of delinquency, foreclosure and default, which could 30 Table of Contents result in losses to us. NOI of an income-producing property can be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: •the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; •changes in operating expenses; •changes in general or local market conditions; •changes in tenant mix and performance, the occupancy or rental rates of the property or, for a property that requires new leasing activity, a failure to lease the property in accordance with the projected leasing schedule; •competition from comparable property types or properties; •unskilled or inexperienced property management; •limited availability of mortgage funds or fluctuations in interest rates which may render the sale and refinancing of a property difficult; •development projects that experience cost overruns or otherwise fail to perform as projected including, without limitation, failure to complete planned renovations, repairs, or construction; •unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses; •challenges to the borrower's claim of title to the real property; •environmental considerations; •zoning laws; •other governmental rules and policies; •unanticipated structural defects or costliness of maintaining the property; •uninsured losses, such as possible acts of terrorism; •a decline in the operational performance of a facility on the real property (such facilities may include multifamily rental facilities, office properties, retail facilities, hospitality facilities, healthcare-related facilities, industrial facilities, warehouse facilities, restaurants, mobile home facilities, recreational or resort facilities, arenas or stadiums, religious facilities, parking lot facilities or other facilities); and •severe weather-related damage to the property and/or its operation. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property, including specialized use as a nursing home or hospitality property. In instances where the borrower is acting as a landlord on the underlying property as we do for our selected net leased and other real estate assets, the ability of such borrower to satisfy the debt obligation we hold will depend on the performance and financial health of the underlying tenants, which may be difficult for us to assess or predict. In addition, as the number of tenants with respect to a commercial property decreases or as tenant spaces on a property must be relet, the nonperformance risk of the loan related to such commercial property may increase. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure on the related loan as lender and repay the principal as borrower. A substantial portion of our portfolio may be committed to the origination or purchasing of commercial loans to small and medium-sized, privately owned businesses. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, such companies generally have limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. The above financial 31 Table of Contents challenges may make it difficult for such borrowers to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on their loans. Accordingly, advances made to such types of borrowers entail higher risks than advances made to companies who are able to access traditional credit sources. A portion of our portfolio also may be committed to the origination or purchasing of commercial loans where the borrower is a business with a history of poor operating performance, based on our belief that we can realize value from a loan on the property despite such borrower's performance history. However, if such borrower were to continue to perform poorly after the origination or purchase of such loan, including due to the above financial challenges, we could be adversely affected. Certain balance sheet loans may be more illiquid and involve a greater risk of loss than long-term mortgage loans. We originate and acquire balance sheet loans generally having maturities of three years or less, that provide interim financing to borrowers seeking short-term capital for the acquisition or transition (for example, lease up and/or rehabilitation) of commercial real estate generally having a maturity of three years or less. Such a borrower under an interim loan often has identified a transitional asset that has been under-managed and/or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower's projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset's management and/or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the interim loan, and we bear the risk that we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. In addition, borrowers usually use the proceeds of a long-term mortgage loan to repay an interim loan. We may, therefore, be dependent on a borrower's ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our interim loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Further, interim loans may be relatively less liquid than loans against stabilized properties due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization, any unstabilized nature of the underlying real estate and the difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower's default. This lack of liquidity may significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our interim loan portfolio and may adversely affect the value of the portfolio. Such "liquidity risk" may be difficult or impossible to hedge against and may also make it difficult to effect a sale of such assets as we may need or desire. As a result, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our interim loan portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which such investments were previously recorded, which may fail to maximize the value of the investments or result in a loss. We may finance first mortgages, which may present greater risks than if we had made first mortgages directly to owners of real estate collateral. Further, our portfolio may include first mortgage loan financings which are loans made to holders of commercial real estate first mortgage loans that are secured by commercial real estate. While we have certain rights with respect to the real estate collateral underlying a first mortgage loan, the holder of the commercial real estate first mortgage loans may fail to exercise its rights with respect to a default or other adverse action relating to the underlying real estate collateral or fail to promptly notify us of such an event which would adversely affect our ability to enforce our rights. In addition, in the event of the bankruptcy of the borrower under the first mortgage loan, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the holder of the commercial real estate loan, or the assets of the holder of the commercial real estate loan may not be sufficient to satisfy our first mortgage loan financing. Accordingly, we may face greater risks from our first mortgage loan financings than if we had made first mortgage loans directly to owners of real estate collateral. 32 Table of Contents We may originate or acquire construction loans, which may expose us to an increased risk of loss. We may originate or acquire construction loans. If we fail to fund our entire commitment on a construction loan or if a borrower otherwise fails to complete the construction of a project, there could be adverse consequences associated with the loan, including: a loss of the value of the property securing the loan, especially if the borrower is unable to raise funds to complete construction from other sources; a borrower claim against us for failure to perform under the loan documents; increased costs to the borrower that the borrower is unable to pay; a bankruptcy filing by the borrower; and abandonment by the borrower of the collateral for the loan. We are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations. Some of our loans are participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control. We may originate or acquire B-Notes, a form of subordinated mortgage loan, and we may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We may originate or acquire B-Notes. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note owners after payment to the A-Note owners. B-Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B-Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments and circumstances. Further, B-Notes typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. B-Notes also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. Our investments in subordinate loans, subordinate participation interests in loans and subordinate CMBS rank junior to other senior debt and we may be unable to recover our investment in these loans. We may originate or acquire subordinate loans (including mezzanine loans), subordinate participation interests in loans and subordinate CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on a loan to us or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan, subordinate loan or debt senior to any loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. In addition, 33 Table of Contents mezzanine and subordinate loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than first mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Significant losses related to our mezzanine loans or subordinate loans would result in operating losses for us. In general, losses on a mortgaged property securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the holder of a mezzanine loan or B-Note, if any, then by the "first loss" subordinated security holder (generally, the "B-Piece" buyer) and then by the holder of a higher-rated security. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, mezzanine loans or B-Notes, and any classes of securities junior to those in which we may invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchased. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage backed securities, the securities in which we may invest may effectively become the "first loss" position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal in these securities. The market value of our investments in CMBS could fluctuate materially as a result of various risks that are out of our control and may result in significant losses. We currently invest in and may continue to invest in CMBS, a specific type of structured finance security. CMBS are securities backed by obligations (including certificates of participation in obligations) that are principally secured by commercial mortgage loans or interests therein having a multi-family or commercial use, such as shopping malls, other retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, nursing homes and senior living centers. Accordingly, investments in CMBS are subject to the various risks described herein which relate to the pool of underlying assets in which the CMBS represents an interest. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to commercial mortgage loans underlying CMBS may be highly dependent on the performance of the servicer or special servicer. There may be a limited number of special servicers available, particularly those which do not have conflicts of interest. We will bear the risk of loss on any CMBS we purchase. Further, the insurance coverage for various types of losses is limited in amount and we would bear losses in excess of the applicable limitations. We may attempt to underwrite our investments on a "loss-adjusted" basis, which projects a certain level of performance. However, there can be no assurance that this underwriting will accurately predict the timing or magnitude of such losses. To the extent that this underwriting has incorrectly anticipated the timing or magnitude of losses, our business may be adversely affected. Some mortgage loans underlying CMBS may default. Under such circumstances, cash flows of CMBS investments held by us may be adversely affected as any reduction in the mortgage payments or principal losses on liquidation of any mortgage loan may be applied to the class of CMBS relating to such defaulted loans that we hold. The market value of our CMBS investments could fluctuate materially over time as the result of changes in mortgage spreads, treasury bond interest rates, capital market supply and demand factors, and many other factors that affect high-yield fixed income products. These factors are out of our control, and could influence our ability to obtain short-term financing on the CMBS. The CMBS in which we may invest may have no, or only a limited, trading market. In addition, we may in the future 34 Table of Contents invest in CMBS investments that are not rated by any credit rating agency, and such investments may be less liquid than CMBS that are rated. The financial markets in the past have experienced and could in the future experience a period of volatility and reduced liquidity which may reoccur or continue and reduce the market value of CMBS. Some or all of the CMBS that we hold may be subject to restrictions on transfer and may be considered illiquid. We have acquired and, in the future, may acquire net leased real estate assets, or make loans to owners of net leased real estate assets (including ourselves), which carry particular risks of loss that may have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A net lease requires the tenant to pay, in addition to the fixed rent, some or all of the property expenses that normally would be paid by the property owner. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net leased properties, if any, will depend upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its obligations to maintain the property under the terms of the net lease. If a tenant fails or becomes unable to so maintain a property, the cash flow and/or the value of the property would be adversely affected. In addition, under many net leases the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including among other things, the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If we, as the owner, or the borrower, were to fail to meet these obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which may result in a loss of capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property. In addition, we, as the owner, or the borrower may find it difficult to lease certain property to new tenants if that property had been suited to the particular needs of a former tenant. The expense of operating and owning real property may impact our cash flow from operations. We have in the past and may in the future make equity investments in real property. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent out properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or redevelop may not produce significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and principal and interest on debt associated with such properties until they are fully leased. For example, in December 2012, we entered into a joint venture to purchase 427 residential condominium units in Veer Towers. There can be no assurance that this investment will generate positive cash flows in excess of the expense of owning and operating such properties. Our investments in securities and mortgages issued by agencies or instrumentalities of the U.S. government face risks of prepayments or defaults on U.S. Agency Securities that we own at a premium and of "negative convexity." We currently invest in and may continue to invest in securities and mortgages issued by agencies or instrumentalities of the U.S. government, including Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration ("FHA"), Freddie Mac and other government agency mortgages secured by single multifamily properties or skilled nursing facilities. Additionally, we invest in real estate mortgage investment conduit ("REMIC") securities collateralized by these mortgages. We invest in U.S. Agency Securities, the principal of which is guaranteed implicitly or explicitly by the U.S. government. Therefore, the most significant risks present in U.S. Agency Securities owned by us are first, in prepayments or defaults on U.S. Agency Securities that we own at a premium and second, "negative convexity," as defined below. 35 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of increased prepayments or defaults by any mortgage or security that we own at a premium, such as any interest-only securities, most single mortgage securities and all construction and permanent loans. Any principal paydown diminishes the amount outstanding in these securities and reduces the yield to us. Before purchasing a loan or security, we judge the likelihood of prepayment based on certain prepayment and default parameters and our own experience in the government agency security market. Different estimates, judgments and assumptions reasonably could be used that would have a material effect on our judgment and, accordingly, result in losses to our business. "Negative convexity" is the inverse relationship between interest rates and the average expected life of a pool of mortgage loans; when interest rates rise, a mortgage may extend and when interest rates fall, a mortgage may prepay or default. As in any mortgage security, negative convexity is a concern as the yield on mortgage-backed securities is based on the average expected life of the underlying pool of mortgage loans. The actual prepayment experience of such pools may cause the yield we realize to differ from that calculated by us in making the investment, resulting in losses or profits. To protect against prepayments in a falling interest rate environment, typically each newly originated multifamily loan owned by us has a combination of 10 years of call/prepayment protection. However, an unexpected default in a single large property may reduce yield. In each transaction, we attempt to understand the agencies' underwriting processes in order to assess the risk of default associated with a particular U.S. Agency Security. We also endeavor to diversify our holdings and at periodic points in time, sell our older positions for newer product, which may have less likelihood of default. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in either of these activities. When interest rates are rising, the rate of prepayment tends to decrease, thereby lengthening the actual average life of such pools. We frequently update our extension risk analyses and, if necessary, our hedging to account for this risk. The same is true when interest rates fall and prepayments tend to increase. Other risks associated with U.S. Agency Securities are illiquidity, re-investment and the risk that a construction loan may not roll into a permanent loan. A change to the conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related actions, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. federal government, could adversely affect our business. Due to increased market concerns about the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to withstand future credit losses associated with securities on which they provide guarantees and loans held in their investment portfolios without the direct support of the U.S. federal government, in September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA") placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by supporting the availability of mortgage financing and protecting taxpayers. The U.S. government program includes contracts between the Treasury and each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that seek to ensure that each GSE maintains a positive net worth by providing for the provision of cash by the Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac if FHFA determines that its liabilities exceed its assets. Although the U.S. government has described some specific steps that it intends to take as part of the conservatorship process, efforts to stabilize these entities may not be successful and the outcome and impact of these events remain highly uncertain. Under the statute providing the framework for the GSE's conservatorship, either or both GSEs could also be placed into receivership under certain circumstances. There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including the length of time for which they may continue to exist and in what form they may operate during that period. In March 2014, leaders of the Senate Building Committee announced plans to eliminate both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bipartisan measure, drafted with the input from the President's administration, would replace the U.S. owned mortgage financiers with government 36 Table of Contents bond insurance that would kick in after private capital suffered losses of at least 10 percent. The bill would require borrowers to make down payments of at least 5 percent. The effects that these plans, which are not guaranteed to take effect as stated or at all, may have on our business are yet to be determined. We may make equity and preferred equity investments which involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We may invest in equity and preferred equity interests in entities owning real estate. Such investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, in most instances we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the equity in accordance with the terms of the security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our capital after any creditors to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our capital, which could result in losses. Our participation in the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations may expose us to risks that could result in losses to us. Following the dislocation of credit markets that commenced in 2007, the market for nonrecourse long-term securitizations has resumed and we have generally participated in that market by contributing loans to securitizations led by various large financial institutions and by leading a single-asset securitization on a single mortgage loan we originated. We may, in the future, take a larger role in leading single-asset and multi-asset securitizations of mortgage loans. To date, when we have primarily acted as a co-manager and mortgage loan seller into securitizations, we have been obligated to assume substantially similar liabilities as were required of a mortgage loan seller prior to the credit market dislocation, including with respect to representations and warranties required to be made for the benefit of investors. In particular, in connection with any particular securitization, we: (i) make certain representations and warranties regarding ourselves and the characteristics of, and origination process for, the mortgage loans that we contribute to the securitization; (ii) undertake to cure, or to repurchase or replace any mortgage loan that we contribute to the securitization that is affected by a material breach of any such representation and warranty or a material loan document deficiency; and (iii) assume, either directly or through the indemnification of third-parties, potential securities law liabilities for disclosure to investors regarding ourselves and the mortgage loans that we contribute to the securitization. When we lead single-asset or multi-asset securitizations as issuer and/or lead manager, we assume, either directly or through indemnification agreements, additional potential securities law liabilities and third-party liabilities beyond the liabilities we would assume when we act only as a mortgage loan seller into a securitization. As a result of the dislocation of the credit markets, the securitization industry has crafted and continues to craft proposed changes to securitization practices, including proposed new standard representations and warranties, underwriting guidelines and disclosure guidelines. In addition, the securitization industry is becoming more regulated. For example, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), various federal agencies have promulgated, or are in the process of promulgating regulations with respect to various issues that affect securitizations, including (i) a requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act that issuers in securitizations retain 5% of the risk associated with securities they issue, (ii) requirements for additional disclosure, (iii) requirements for additional review and reporting and (iv) certain restrictions designed to prevent conflicts of interest. The implementation of any regulations ultimately adopted will occur over a time period that could range from two months to as long as two years. Certain regulations have already been adopted and others remain under consideration by various governmental agencies, in some cases past the deadlines set in the Dodd-Frank Act for adoption. It is expected that the risk-retention 37 Table of Contents regulations will be adopted in 2014 and that, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act as presently in effect, those regulations would take effect two years after adoption. Certain proposed regulations, if adopted, could alter the structure of securitizations in the future and could pose additional risks to our participation in future securitizations or could reduce or eliminate the economic benefits of participating in future securitizations. Prior to any securitization, we generally finance mortgage loans with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. We are subject to the risk that we will not be able to originate or acquire sufficient eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a securitization. We also bear the risk that we might not be able to obtain new short-term facilities or would not be able to renew any short-term facilities after they expire should we need more time to seek and acquire sufficient eligible assets for a securitization. Our inability to refinance any short-term facilities would also increase our risk because borrowings thereunder would likely be recourse to us or one of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our assets on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price. Any credit ratings assigned to our investments could be downgraded, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Some of our investments may be rated by one or more of Moody's, Fitch, Standard & Poor's, Realpoint, Dominion Bond Rating Service, Kroll Bond Ratings or other credit rating agencies. Any credit ratings on our investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot be assured that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a credit rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If credit rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of our portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us. The credit ratings currently assigned to our investments may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those investments. Credit rating agencies rate investments based upon their assessment of the perceived safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments from the issuers of such debt securities. Credit ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in such securities. Also, credit rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to credit ratings based on recently available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may in fact be better or worse than the ratings indicate. We try to reduce the impact of the risk that a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security by not relying solely on credit ratings as the indicator of the quality of an investment. We make our acquisition decisions after factoring in other information, such as the discounted value of a CMBS security's projected future cash flows, and the value of the real estate collateral underlying the mortgage loans owned by the issuing REMIC trust. However, our assessment of the quality of a CMBS investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations. We could incur losses from investments in non-conforming and non-investment grade-rated loans or securities, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Some of our investments may not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders and either may not be rated or may be rated as non-investment grade by the credit rating agencies. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of 38 Table of Contents the underlying loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers' credit history, the properties' underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these investments will have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade-rated assets. Any loss that we incur may be significant. There may be no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade rated assets that we may hold in our portfolio. Some of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value and there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Furthermore, our determinations of fair value may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of some of our investments may not be readily determinable. We will value these investments quarterly at fair value, as determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification (Topic 820): Fair Value Measurement, or ASC 820. Because such valuations are subjective, the fair value of certain of our assets may fluctuate over short periods of time and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these assets existed. Our determinations of fair value may have a material impact on our earnings, in the case of impaired loans and other assets, trading securities and available-for-sale securities that are subject to OTTI, or our accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in our stockholders' equity, in the case of available-for-sale securities that are subject only to temporary impairments. In many cases, our determination of the fair value of our investments will be based on valuations provided by third-party dealers and pricing services. Valuations of certain of our assets are often difficult to obtain or unreliable. In general, dealers and pricing services heavily disclaim their valuations. Dealers may claim to furnish valuations only as an accommodation and without special compensation, and so they may disclaim any and all liability for any direct, incidental or consequential damages arising out of any inaccuracy or incompleteness in valuations, including any act of negligence or breach of any warranty. Depending on the complexity and illiquidity of an asset, valuations of the same asset can vary substantially from one dealer or pricing service to another. Additionally, our results of operations for a given period could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Our ability to collect upon the mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws. Each of our mortgage loans permits us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. The courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke such acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. The equity courts of any state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security instrument or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness if the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render the acceleration unconscionable. Thus, a court may refuse to permit foreclosure or acceleration if a default is deemed immaterial or the exercise of those remedies would be unjust or unconscionable or if a material default is cured. Further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. Several states (including California) have laws that prohibit more than one "judicial action" to enforce a mortgage obligation. Some courts have construed the term "judicial action" broadly. 39 Table of Contents The borrowers under the loans underlying our investments may be unable to repay their remaining principal balances on their stated maturity dates, which could negatively impact our business results. Our mortgage loans may be non-amortizing or partially amortizing balloon loans that provide for substantial payments of principal due at their stated maturities. Balloon loans involve a greater risk to the lender than amortizing loans because a borrower's ability to repay a balloon mortgage loan on its stated maturity date typically will depend upon its ability either to refinance the mortgage loan (although some loans such as those on condominium projects, may be at least partially self-liquidating) or to sell the mortgaged property at a price sufficient to permit repayment. A borrower's ability to effect a refinancing or sale will be affected by a number of factors. We are not obligated to refinance any of these mortgage loans. Third-party diligence reports on mortgaged properties are made as of a point in time and are therefore limited in scope. Appraisals and engineering and environmental reports, as well as a variety of other third party reports, are generally obtained with respect to each of the mortgaged properties underlying our investments at or about the time of origination. Appraisals are not guarantees of present or future value. One appraiser may reach a different conclusion than the conclusion that would be reached if a different appraiser were appraising that property. Moreover, the values of the mortgaged properties may have fluctuated significantly since the appraisals were performed. In addition, any third party report, including any engineering report, environmental report, site inspection or appraisal represents only the analysis of the individual consultant, engineer or inspector preparing such report at the time of such report, and may not reveal all necessary or desirable repairs, maintenance, remediation and capital improvement items. The owners of, and borrowers on, the properties which secure our investments may seek the protection afforded by bankruptcy, insolvency and other debtor relief laws, which may create potential for risk of loss to us. Although commercial mortgage lenders typically seek to reduce the risk of borrower bankruptcy through such items as nonrecourse carveouts for bankruptcy and special purpose entity/separateness covenants and/or non-consolidation opinions for borrowing entities, the owners of, and borrowers on, the properties which secure our investments may still seek the protection afforded by bankruptcy, insolvency and other debtor relief laws. One of the protections offered in such proceedings to borrowers or owners is a stay of legal proceedings against such borrowers or owners, and a stay of enforcement proceedings against collateral for such loans or underlying such securities (including the properties and cash collateral). A stay of foreclosure proceedings could adversely affect our ability to realize on its collateral, and could adversely affect the value of those assets. Other protections in such proceedings to borrowers and owners include forgiveness of debt, the ability to create super priority liens in favor of certain creditors of the debtor, the potential loss of cash collateral held by the lender if the lender is over-collateralized, and certain well defined claims procedures. Additionally, the numerous risks inherent in the bankruptcy process create a potential risk of loss of our entire investment in any particular investment. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or the properties underlying our investments. Liability relating to environmental matters may decrease the value of the underlying properties of our investments and may adversely affect the ability of a person to sell such property or real estate instrument related to the property or borrow using such property as collateral and may adversely affect the security afforded by a property for a mortgage loan. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous 40 Table of Contents substances released on, about, under or in its property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. To the extent that an owner of an underlying property becomes liable for removal costs, testing, monitoring, remediation, bodily injury or property damage, the ability of the owner to make debt payments may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset related to such property. If we acquire any properties by foreclosure or otherwise, the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thereby harming our financial conditions. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, some federal and state laws provide that, in certain situations, a secured lender, such as us, may be liable as an "owner" or "operator" of the real property, regardless of whether the borrower or previous owner caused the environmental damage. Therefore, the presence of hazardous materials on certain property could have an adverse effect on us in our capacity as the owner of such property, as the mortgage lender to the owner of such property, or as the holder of a real estate instrument related to such property. Insurance on the real estate underlying our loans and investments may not cover all losses, and this shortfall could result in both loss of cash flow from and a decrease in the asset value of the affected property. The borrower, or we as property owner and/or originating lender, as the case may be, might not purchase enough or the proper types of insurance coverage to cover all losses. Further, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from and a decrease in the asset value of the affected property. Our entitlement to repayment on a loan may be impacted by the doctrine of equitable subordination, which would result in the subordination of our claim to the claims of other creditors of the borrower. Courts have, in some cases, applied the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim of a lending institution against a borrower to claims of other creditors of the borrower, when the lending institution is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable or fraudulent conduct. The courts have also applied the doctrine of equitable subordination when a lending institution or its affiliates are found to have exerted inappropriate control over a borrower, including control resulting from the ownership of equity interests in a borrower. In certain instances where we own equity in a property, we also may make one or more loans to the owner of such property. Payments on one or more of our loans, particularly a loan to a borrower in which we also hold equity interests, may be subject to claims of equitable subordination that would place our entitlement to repayment of the loan on an equal basis with holders of the borrower's common equity only after all of the borrower's obligations relating to its other debt and preferred securities has been satisfied. If we purchase or originate loans secured by liens on facilities that are subject to a ground lease and such ground lease is terminated unexpectedly, our interests could be adversely affected. A ground lease is a lease of land, usually on a long-term basis, that does not include buildings or other improvements on the land. Normally any real property improvements made by the lessee during the term of the lease will revert to the owner at the end of the lease term. We may purchase or originate loans secured by liens on facilities that are subject to a ground lease, and, if the ground lease 41 Table of Contents were to terminate unexpectedly, due to the borrower's default on such ground lease, our business could be adversely affected. For certain of our loans, we may rely on loan agents and special servicers and such agents and servicers may not act in the manner that we expect. With respect to some of our loans, we will be neither the agent of the lending group that receives payments under the loan nor the agent of the lending group that controls the collateral for purposes of administering the loan. When we are not the agent for a loan, we may not receive the same financial or operational information as we would receive for loans for which we are the agent and, in many instances, the information on which we must rely may be provided by the agent rather than directly by the borrower. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to track or rate such loans than it is for the loans for which we are the agent. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent or other lenders for one of such loans may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would have taken had we been agent for the loan. We may not be able to control the party who services the mortgage loans included in the CMBS in which we may invest if those loans are in default and, in such cases, our interests could be adversely affected. With respect to each series of the CMBS in which we may invest, overall control over the special servicing of the related underlying mortgage loans will be held by a "directing certificate-holder" or a "controlling class representative," which is appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of CMBS in such series. We may not have the right to appoint the directing certificate-holder or controlling class representative. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced mortgage loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate-holder or controlling class representative, take actions with respect to the specially serviced mortgage loans that could adversely affect our interests. However, the special servicer is not permitted to take actions that are prohibited by law or violate the applicable servicing standard or the terms of the mortgage loan documents. We may be required to make determinations of a borrower's creditworthiness based on incomplete information or information that we cannot verify, which may cause us to purchase or originate loans that we otherwise would not have purchased or originated and, as a result, may negatively impact our business. The commercial real estate lending business depends on the creditworthiness of borrowers, which we must judge. In making such judgment, we will depend on information obtained from non-public sources and the borrowers in making many decisions related to our portfolio, and such information may be difficult to obtain or may be inaccurate. As a result, we may be required to make decisions based on incomplete information or information that is impossible or impracticable to verify. A determination as to the creditworthiness of a prospective borrower is based on a wide-range of information including, without limitation, information relating to the form of entity of the prospective borrower, which may indicate whether the borrower can limit the impact that its other activities have on its ability to pay obligations related to the mortgaged property. Even if we are provided with full and accurate disclosure of all material information concerning a borrower, members of the management team may misinterpret or incorrectly analyze this information, which may cause us to purchase or originate loans that we otherwise would not have purchased or originated and, as a result, may negatively impact our business or the borrower could still defraud us after origination leading to a loss. 42 Table of Contents Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. Our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. We must evaluate existing conditions on our debt investments to make determinations to record loan loss reserves on these specific investments. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. If the loans that we originate or purchase do not comply with applicable laws, we may be subject to penalties. Loans that we originate or purchase may be directly or indirectly subject to U.S. laws. Real estate lenders and borrowers may be responsible for compliance with a wide range of law intended to protect the public interest, including, without limitation, the Truth in Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Housing and Americans with Disabilities Acts and local zoning laws (including, but not limited, to zoning laws that allow permitted non-conforming uses). If we or any other person fail to comply with such laws in relation to a loan that we have purchased or originated, legal penalties may be imposed, and our business may be adversely affected as a result. Additionally, jurisdictions with "one action," "security first" and/or "antideficiency rules" may limit our ability or the ability of a special servicer of a CMBS issuance to foreclose on a real property or to realize on obligations secured by a real property. In the future, new laws may be enacted or imposed by federal, state or local governmental entities, and such laws may have an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to various risks relating to non-U.S. securities and loans that may make them more risky than our investments in U.S.-based securities and loans. Investments in securities or loans of non-U.S. issuers or borrowers or on non-U.S. properties and securities denominated or whose prices are quoted in non-U.S. currencies pose, to the extent not hedged, currency exchange risks (including blockage, devaluation and nonexchangeability), as well as a range of other potential risks which could include expropriation, confiscatory taxation, withholding or other taxes on interest, dividends, capital gain or other income, political or social instability, illiquidity, price volatility, market manipulation and the burdens of complying with international licensing and regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions. In addition, less information may be available regarding non-U.S. properties or securities of non-U.S. issuers or borrowers and non-U.S. issuers or borrowers may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to or as uniform as those of U.S. issuers. Transaction costs of investing in non-U.S. securities or loan markets are generally higher than in the United States, and there may be less government supervision and regulation of exchanges, brokers and issuers than there is in the United States. We might have greater difficulty taking appropriate legal action in non-U.S. courts and non-U.S. markets also have different clearance and settlement procedures which in some markets have at times failed to keep pace with the volume of transactions, thereby creating substantial delays and settlement failures that could adversely affect our performance. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our business is highly leveraged, which could lead to greater losses than if we were not as leveraged. We do and, in the future, intend to use financial leverage in executing our business plan. Such borrowings my take the form of "financing facilities" such as bank credit facilities, credit facilities from government agencies (including the FHLB), repurchase agreements and warehouse lines of credit, which are secured revolving lines of credit that we utilize to warehouse portfolios or real estate instruments until we exit them through securitization. We do and, in the future, intend to enter into securitization and other long-term financing transactions to use the proceeds from such transactions to reduce the outstanding balances under these financing facilities. However, such agreements may include a recourse component. Further, any financing facilities that we currently have or may use in the future to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt if the market value of our assets pledged or sold to the provider of the credit facility or the repurchase agreement counterparty decline in value. In addition, our borrowings are generally based on floating interest rates, the fluctuation of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our use of leverage in a market that moves adversely to our business interests could result in a substantial loss to us, which would be greater than if we were not leveraged. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize financing arrangements in the future on favorable terms, or at all. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain, maintain or renew our financing facilities on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, any financing facility that we enter into will be subject to conditions and restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. To the extent we breach a covenant or cannot satisfy a condition, such facility may not be available to us, or may be required to be repaid in full or in part, which could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Further, such borrowings may limit the length of time during which any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. Additionally, if we are unable to securitize our loans to replenish a warehouse line of credit, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate our assets. Furthermore, some of our warehouse lines of credit contain cross-default provisions. If a default occurs under one of these warehouse lines of credit and the lenders terminate one or more of these agreements, we may need to enter into replacement agreements with different lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such replacement agreements on the same terms as the terminated warehouse line of credit. We may issue more unsecured corporate bonds in the future depending on the financing requirements of our business and market conditions. Our failure to maintain the credit ratings on our debt securities could negatively affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense. The credit rating agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. Deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of the credit ratings on our Notes and other debt securities. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs could increase, which could have material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 44 Table of Contents The utilization of any of our repurchase and warehouse facilities and other financing arrangements is subject to the pre-approval of the lender, which we may be unable to obtain. In order to borrow funds under a repurchase or warehouse agreement or other financing arrangement, the lender has the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing and approve such asset in its sole discretion. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to finance an investment and alternate sources of financing for such asset may not exist. Our use of repurchase agreements to finance our securities and/or loans may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy, including the right to repudiate our repurchase agreements, which could limit or delay our claims. In the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. In the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted under applicable insolvency laws to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured claim. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender's insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. These claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur. Therefore, our use of repurchase agreements to finance our portfolio assets exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or ourselves. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security and/or loans to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security and/or loans has declined as of the end of that term, or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities and/or loans to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) in return for cash from the lenders. The lenders then are obligated to resell the same securities and/or loans to us at the end of the term of the transaction. In a repurchase agreement, the cash we receive from a lender when we initially sell the securities and/or loans to such lender is less than the value of the securities and/ or loans sold. If the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities and/or loans to us under the terms of a repurchase agreement, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the difference between the value of the securities and/or loans sold and the cash we received from the lender (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities and/or loans). We also would lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities and/ or loans has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities and/or loans for their initial value but would receive securities and/or loans worth less than that amount. Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender will be able to terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements generally contain crossdefault provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements also could declare a default. If a default occurs under any of our repurchase agreements and the lenders terminate one or more of their repurchase agreements, we may need to enter into replacement repurchase agreements with different lenders. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such replacement repurchase agreements on the same terms as 45 Table of Contents the repurchase agreements that were terminated or at all. Any losses that we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings. We may be subject to repurchases of loans or indemnification on loans and real estate that we have sold if certain representations or warranties in those sales are breached. If loans that we sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about the loans, the borrowers, or the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase such loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through a securitization) or replace them with substitute loans. Additionally, in the case of loans and real estate that we have sold, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically will require a significant allocation of working capital to be carried on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets may be limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our business. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our Notes and other indebtedness, and could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $2.2 billion of aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, of which $1.9 billion was secured indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have other important consequences to you and significant effects on our business. For example, it could; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Notes and other debt securities, and our other debt; •increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •restrict us from capitalizing on business opportunities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. The occurrence of any one or more of these effects could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, the credit agreements governing our funding debt and the indenture governing our Notes contain, and the agreements governing future indebtedness and future debt securities may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which could lead to a substantial loss and a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. 46 Table of Contents We will depend on distributions from our subsidiaries to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. Our ability to service debt obligations, including our ability to pay the interest on and principal of our credit facilities, Notes and other debt securities when due, will be dependent upon cash distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon their respective earnings and subject to any limitations on the ability of such entities to make payments or other distributions to us, including limitations imposed by individual debt arrangements at these subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to us. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. Although we are subject to certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt in the indenture governing the senior notes and our other debt agreements, such restrictions would allow us to incur significant additional debt and are subject to significant qualifications and restrictions. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risk associated with our substantial indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, will increase. In addition, because certain of our outstanding indebtedness bears interest at variable rates of interest, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. We may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, or may create additional risks. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generally, the debt we have incurred to finance the mortgage loans we originate matures sooner than those mortgage loans. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, and to fund working capital needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the value of our common stock. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future indebtedness may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of our common stock. 47 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow could be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. As a result, any default by us on our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business and could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. The indenture governing our Notes and the credit agreements governing our funding debt will restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The indenture governing our Notes and the credit agreements governing our funding debt will impose significant operating and financial restrictions and limit the ability of LCFH, and its restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; •pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, partnership interests or capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •sell or otherwise dispose of assets; •sell stock of our subsidiaries; •incur liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are and will be limited in how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, we will be required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as others contained in our future debt instruments from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. 48 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulatory and Compliance Matters One of our subsidiaries is registered as a broker-dealer and is subject to various broker-dealer regulations. Violations of these regulations could result in revocation of broker-dealer licenses, fines or other disciplinary action. We have a subsidiary that is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"). This subsidiary, which from time to time co-manages the CMBS securitizations to which an affiliate contributes collateral as loan seller, is subject to regulations that cover all aspects of its business, including sales methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities, the capital structure of the subsidiary, recordkeeping, the financing of clients' purchases and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC and FINRA have also imposed both conduct-based and disclosure-based requirements with respect to research reports. Violation of these regulations can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses (which could result in our having to hire new licensed investment professionals before continuing certain operations), the imposition of censure or fines and the suspension or expulsion of the subsidiary, its officers or employees from FINRA. In addition, our broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to routine periodic examination by the staff of FINRA. As a registered broker-dealer and member of a self-regulatory organization, our broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule. Rule 15c3-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") specifies the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a significant part of a broker-dealer's assets be kept in relatively liquid form. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. The Dodd-Frank Act will result in additional regulation by the SEC, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") and other regulators of our broker-dealer subsidiary. The legislation calls for the imposition of expanded standards of care by market participants in dealing with clients and customers, including by providing the SEC with authority to adopt rules establishing fiduciary duties for broker-dealers and directing the SEC to examine and improve sales practices and disclosure by broker-dealers and investment advisers. Our broker-dealer subsidiary will also be affected by rules to be adopted by federal agencies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that require any person who organizes or initiates an asset-backed security transaction to retain a portion (generally, at least five percent) of any credit risk that the person conveys to a third party. Securitizations will also be affected by rules proposed by the SEC in September 2011 to implement the Dodd-Frank Act's prohibition against securitization participants' engaging in any transaction that would involve or result in any material conflict of interest with an investor in a securitization transaction. The proposed rules would exempt bona fide market-making activities and risk-mitigating hedging activities in connection with securitization activities from the general prohibition. If our subsidiaries that are regulated as registered investment advisers are unable to meet the requirements of the SEC or fail to comply with certain federal and state securities laws and regulations, they may face termination of their investment adviser registration, fines or other disciplinary action. Two of our subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC as registered investment advisers. Registered investment advisers are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Advisers Act"). Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary 49 Table of Contents duties to advisory clients, maintaining an effective compliance program, solicitation agreements, conflicts of interest, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an advisor and advisory clients and general anti-fraud prohibitions. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage. If our subsidiaries that are regulated as registered investment advisers are unable to successfully negotiate the terms of their management fees, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our asset management business, which consists of our institutional bridge loan partnership (a private investment fund) in addition to two separate CMBS managed accounts as of December 31, 2013, depends in large part on our ability to raise capital from third-party investors. If we are unable to raise capital from third-party investors, we would be unable to collect management fees or deploy their capital into investments and potentially receive additional fees and compensation, which would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow from our asset management business and adversely affect our financial condition. In connection with creating new investment products or securing additional investments in existing accounts and vehicles, we negotiate terms with existing and potential investors. The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us than the terms of other accounts or vehicles one of our investment adviser subsidiaries has advised. Such terms could restrict our subsidiaries' ability to advise accounts or vehicles with investment objectives or strategies that compete with existing accounts or vehicles, reduce fee revenues we earn, reduce the percentage of profits on third-party capital that we share in or add expenses and obligations for us in managing the accounts or vehicles or increase our potential liabilities, all of which could ultimately reduce our profitability. The historical returns attributable to the accounts and investment vehicles managed by our asset management business are not indicative of the future results of the accounts and investment vehicles managed by this business, our future results or the performance of our Class A common stock The historical and potential future returns of the accounts and investment vehicles managed by our asset management business are not directly linked to returns on our business. Therefore, any positive performance of the accounts and investment vehicles that we manage will not necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our common equity. However, poor performance of the accounts and investment vehicles that we manage would cause a decline in our revenue from such accounts and investment vehicles, and would, therefore, have a negative effect on our performance. One of our subsidiaries that advises private investment funds may provide investors the right to redeem their investments in these funds or to cause these funds to be dissolved. In addition, the investment management agreements related to our separately managed accounts may permit the investor to terminate our management of such account on short notice. Any of these events would lead to a decrease in our revenues, which could be substantial. Investors in any private investment funds advised by one of our subsidiaries may have the right redeem their investments on an annual, semi-annual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time when capital may not be withdrawn, subject to the applicable fund's specific redemption provisions. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our subsidiary's assets under management could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions in our subsidiary's funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, net income and cash flows. 50 Table of Contents One of our subsidiaries currently manages certain separately managed accounts whereby it earns management and incentive fees. The investment management agreements our subsidiary enters into in connection with managing separately managed accounts on behalf of certain clients may be terminated by such clients on relatively short notice. In the case of any such terminations, the management and incentive fees our subsidiary earns in connection with managing such account would cease, which could result in an adverse impact on our revenues. The governing agreements of any private investment funds advised by one of our subsidiaries may provide that, subject to certain conditions, third-party investors in those funds will have the right to remove the general partner of the fund or to accelerate the liquidation date of the investment fund without cause by a simple majority vote, resulting in a reduction in the compensation we would earn from such investment funds. Finally, the applicable funds would cease to exist. In addition to having a negative impact on our revenue, net income and cash flow, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of our investment funds could result in significant reputational damage to us. We cannot be certain that consents required for assignments of our investment management agreements will be obtained if a change of control occurs at the Company, which may result in the termination of these agreements and a corresponding loss of revenue. All of our separately managed accounts and private funds do and would have an adviser that is regulated as a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act, which requires these investment management agreements to be terminated upon an "assignment" without investor consent. Such "assignment" may be deemed to occur in the event such adviser was to experience a direct or indirect change of control (at the Company level). Termination of these agreements would cause us to lose the fees we earn from such accounts or funds. If our subsidiary that operates as a captive insurance company fails to comply with insurance laws or is no longer a member of the FHLB, our sources of financing may be limited, which may have an adverse financial impact on the captive and us. We maintain a captive insurance company to provide coverage previously self-insured by us, including nuclear, biological or chemical coverage, excess property coverage and excess errors and omissions coverage. The captive is regulated by the State of Michigan and is subject to regulations that cover all aspects of its business, including a requirement to maintain a certain minimum net capital. Violation of these regulations can result in revocation of its authorization to do business as a captive insurer or result in censures or fines. The captive could also be found to be in violation of the insurance laws of states other than Michigan (i.e., states where insureds are located), in which case fines and penalties could apply from those states. Any limitation on the activities of the captive and regulatory proceeding, regulatory limitation or sanction, loss of license or change of laws or regulation affecting the captive could affect the ability of the captive to borrow from the FHLB and thereby limit a source of financing for our operations. The captive is a member of the FHLB, and as such, is eligible to borrow funds, on a fully collateralized basis, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the FHLB's Advances, Pledge and Security Agreement. As a member, the captive is required to purchase shares of the FHLB based on the amount of funds borrowed. The organization of the captive and its membership in the FHLB is viewed as a risk financing and investment vehicle of Ladder. Like any other investment, the captive's participation in the FHLB involves some risk of loss, both with respect to the shares of the FHLB and the assets provided by the captive as collateral. Furthermore, if the captive's membership in the FHLB is terminated, then it may have an adverse financial impact on the captive and us. 51 Table of Contents The FHFA may pass regulatory initiatives adverse to insurance companies which may lead to limited lending to our captive insurance company and possibly termination of our FHLB membership. The FHFA is the regulator of the FHLB. The FHFA has issued regulatory initiatives to address its concerns regarding insurance companies, including captive insurance companies, as members of the FHLB. These initiatives could (i) impact whether additional insurance companies may become members of an FHLB, (ii) limit lending by FHLB to insurance companies members, (iii) incentivize insurance companies to voluntarily withdraw from membership or (iv) dictate the involuntary termination of insurance companies and the associated repayment of their outstanding financing. Although we do not expect the FHFA to issue proposed rules in the near term, there can be no assurance that any such proposed rules will not adversely impact our captive insurance company and its access to lending by the FHLB. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to the holding company could prevent us from meeting our obligations. As a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, Ladder relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations and for other corporate expenses. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to the holding company due to the lack of regulatory or lender approval could prevent us from meeting our obligations. For example, our captive insurance company subsidiary is subject to state regulations, and our broker dealer subsidiary is subject to FINRA and Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regulations, both of which require that dividends (including dividends to us as their parent company) may only be made with respective regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we would obtain such approval if sought. The indenture governing our Notes and the credit agreements governing our funding debt also contain limitations on the ability of the holding company and its subsidiaries to pay dividends above certain amounts, any exception to which would require lender or noteholder approval. Regulatory changes in the United States and regulatory compliance failures could adversely affect our reputation, business and operations. Potential regulatory action poses a significant risk to our business. Certain of our subsidiaries' businesses are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and may rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act, and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties who we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to be revoked or challenged or otherwise become unavailable to us, we could be subject to regulatory action or third-party claims, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Further each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over one or more of our subsidiaries has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities, which may negatively affect our business. In addition, we are now subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. We may also be involved in trading activities which implicate a broad number of United States securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies. Violation of these laws could result in severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation. 52 Table of Contents In June 2010, the SEC approved Rule 206(4)-5 under the Advisers Act regarding "pay to play" practices by investment advisers involving campaign contributions and other payments to government clients and elected officials able to exert influence on such clients. The rule prohibits investment advisers from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for two years, subject to very limited exceptions, after the investment adviser, its senior executives or its personnel involved in soliciting investments from government entities make contributions to certain candidates and officials in position to influence the hiring of an investment adviser by such government client. Advisers are required to implement compliance policies designed, among other matters, to track contributions by certain of the adviser's employees and engagement of third-parties that solicit government entities and to keep certain records in order to enable the SEC to determine compliance with the rule. Any failure on our part to comply with the rule could expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage. In addition, there have been similar rules on a state-level regarding "pay to play" practices by investment advisers. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact on us of the Dodd-Frank Act or any other new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our regulated businesses and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. If our employees were improperly to use or disclose confidential information obtained during discussions regarding a potential investment, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the extensive precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If one of our employees were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Accounting rules for certain of our transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, VIEs, and other aspects of our anticipated operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our stockholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our consolidated financial statements, result in a need to restate our financial results and affect our ability to timely prepare our consolidated financial statements. Our inability to timely prepare our consolidated financial statements in the future would likely adversely affect our security prices significantly. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investment Company Act Exemption Maintenance of our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act imposes significant limits on our operations. The value of our securities, including our Class A common stock may be adversely affected if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we or any of our subsidiaries fail to qualify for and maintain an exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, or an exclusion from the definition of an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either to (i) substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (ii) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (iii) register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, any of which could have an adverse effect on us, our financial results, the sustainability of our business model or the value of our securities. If we or any of our subsidiaries were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, the registered entity would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to capital structure (including the ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change its operations and we would not be able to conduct our business as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For example, because affiliate transactions are generally prohibited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into certain transactions with any of our affiliates if we are required to register as an investment company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. If we were required to register ourselves as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. We believe we are not an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because we do not engage primarily, or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily, and do not propose to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. However, under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act, because we are a holding company that will conduct its businesses primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by these subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of "investment company" under Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our adjusted total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis (the "40% test"). This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. In addition, the assets we and our subsidiaries may originate or acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which may adversely affect our business. We expect that certain of our subsidiaries may rely on the exclusion from the definition of "investment company" under the Investment Company Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which is available for entities "primarily engaged" in the business of "purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate." This exclusion, as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires that an entity invest at least 55% of its assets 54 Table of Contents in qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its assets in qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. We expect each of our subsidiaries relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) to rely on guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of such guidance to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. However, the SEC's guidance was issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face. We have not received, nor have we sought, a no-action letter from the SEC regarding how our investment strategy fits within the exclusions from the definition of an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act that we and our subsidiaries are relying on. The SEC staff may, in the future, issue further guidance that may require us to re-classify our assets for purposes of qualifying for an exclusion from the definition of an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act. If we are required to re-classify our assets, certain of our subsidiaries may no longer be in compliance with the exclusion from the definition of an "investment company" provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to make certain investments and these limitations could result in a subsidiary holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold. Any of the Company or our subsidiaries may rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act to the extent that they primarily engage, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in the businesses described in Sections 3(c)(3), 3(c)(4) and 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act. The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6) and any guidance published by the staff could require us to adjust our strategy accordingly. We determine whether an entity is one of our majority-owned subsidiaries. The Investment Company Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our strategy and our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on us. In 2011, the SEC solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exclusion and whether companies that are engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments should be regulated in a manner similar to investment companies. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of such companies, including the SEC or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding Section 3(c)(5)(C), will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain an exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect our financial results, the sustainability of our business model or the value of our securities. 55 Table of Contents Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Our officers and directors may be involved in other businesses related to the commercial real estate industry and potential conflicts of interests may arise if we invest in commercial real estate instruments or properties affiliated with such businesses. Our officers or directors may be involved in other businesses related to the commercial real estate industry, and we may wish to invest in commercial real estate instruments or properties affiliated with such persons. Potential conflicts of interest may exist in such situations, and as a result, the benefits to our business of such investments may be limited. We do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any transaction in which we have an interest or engaging for their own account in business activities of the types that we conduct. We may compete with our investors and our affiliated entities for certain investment opportunities. TowerBrook and GI Partners, or one or more of their affiliates, may compete against us for investment opportunities in the future. The investment in the Company by the funds managed by TowerBrook and GI Partners did not result in any limitations on the types of investments and activities that may be made or pursued by any of the funds managed by TowerBrook and GI Partners and the amended and restated articles of incorporation of Ladder Capital Corp provide that Ladder shall not have any right or expectation in any corporate opportunities known to Towerbrook or GI Partners. In the future, TowerBrook or GI Partners (or one of any of their affiliates) or one or more of the funds managed by TowerBrook or GI Partners may invest in and/or control one or more other entities or businesses with investment and operating focuses that overlap with our investment and operating focus. Certain potential conflicts of interest may also arise with respect to the allocation of prospective investments between us and one or more of the funds managed by TowerBrook and GI Partners or other investment entities controlled or managed by TowerBrook and GI Partners and their affiliates. Where such allocations are appropriate, TowerBrook and GI Partners generally will act or choose not to act in a fashion that they deem reasonable and fair to each investment entity that is a party to the transaction. As a result, we may decide not to invest in otherwise desirable and beneficial investment opportunities. Meridian Capital Group, LLC ("Meridian"), a strategic investor in us, expects, in its capacity as a commercial real estate mortgage loan broker, to present us with a geographically diverse volume of loan opportunities for our review. Meridian, however, will also provide our competitors with many, if not all, of the same loan opportunities and there can be no assurance that we will accept any of these opportunities for origination. Certain of our entities have in the past and may in the future make loans to other of our entities. Such loans may be made on other-than-arms'-length terms, and as a result, we could be deemed to be subject to an inherent conflict of interest in the event that the interest rates and related fees of such loans differ from those rates and fees then available in the marketplace. We expect that such loans will not give rise to a conflict of interest because such loans generally will be made at rates, and subject to fees, lower than those available in the marketplace; however, we will attempt to resolve any conflicts of interest that arise in a fair and equitable manner. We hold CMBS and the master servicer, special servicer or sub- servicer or their affiliates may have relationships with borrowers under related mortgage loans and such relationships may impact the value of such CMBS. In instances where we hold CMBS, the master servicer, special servicer or sub-servicer or any of their respective affiliates may have interests in, or other financial relationships with, borrowers under 56 Table of Contents related mortgage loans. Such relationships may create conflicts of interest that negatively impact the value of such CMBS. Risks Related to Hedging We may enter into hedging transactions that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future and adversely impact our financial condition. Part of our hedging strategy involves entering into hedging transactions that may require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (such as the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear in our financial statements. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings. We intend to pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect our business because, among other things: •interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; •available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; •due to a credit loss or other factors, the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; •applicable law may require mandatory clearing of certain interest rate hedges we may wish to use, which may raise costs; •the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign its side of the hedging transaction; and •the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. In addition, we may fail to recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient manner. Any hedging activity in which we engage may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions seeking to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. 57 Table of Contents Certain hedging instruments are not traded on regulated exchanges and therefore may involve risks and costs that could result in material losses. The enforceability of agreements underlying certain hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements under U.S. law and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default, resulting in the loss of unrealized profits and forcing us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. A liquid secondary market may not exist for these hedging instruments, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in significant losses. We may enter into hedging transactions that subject us to mandatory margin requirements. Part of our strategy will involve entering into hedging transactions that may be subject to mandatory clearing under the Dodd-Frank Act and therefore subject to mandatory margin requirements. The margin we may be required to post may be subject to the rules of the relevant clearinghouse, which may provide the clearinghouse with discretion to increase those requirements. In addition, clearing intermediaries who clear our trades with a clearinghouse may have contractual rights to increase the margin requirements we are required to provide. Our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. In addition, the failure to satisfy a margin call may result in the liquidation of all or a portion of the relevant hedge transactions. Increased regulatory oversight of derivatives could adversely affect our hedging activities. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, which covers certain hedging instruments we may use in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act and related SEC and CFTC regulations that have been adopted to date include significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives (including mandatory clearing and margin requirements), although the full impact of those provisions will not be known definitively until they have been fully implemented. Additional SEC and CFTC regulations governing derivative transactions and market participants are also expected. The legislation and new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and also affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available hedge counterparties. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our only material asset is our interest in LCFH, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from LCFH to pay dividends, if any, taxes, payments under the tax receivable agreement, and other expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of LP Units. We have no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause LCFH to make distributions to its unitholders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable by them determined according to assumed rates, payments owing under the tax receivable agreement, and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and LCFH is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We are controlled by the pre-IPO investors in LCFH, whose interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. The Continuing LCFH Limited Partners and Exchanging Existing Owners of LCFH (together the "Pre-IPO LCFH Investors") control approximately 84.6% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. 58 Table of Contents Accordingly, the Pre-IPO LCFH Investors" thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, they will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. In addition, the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners own 49.0% of the LP Units. Because they hold their ownership interest in our business through LCFH, rather than through the public company, they may have conflicting interests with holders of our Class A common stock. For example, the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these existing unitholders' tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence—Tax Receivable Agreement." We will be required to pay certain existing unitholders of LCFH for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with future exchanges of LP Units under the LLLP Agreement, which payments could be substantial. The Continuing LCFH Limited Partners may from time to time cause LCFH to exchange an equal number of LP Units and Class B common stock for Class A common stock of Ladder Capital Corp on a one-for-one basis (as described in more detail in "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence—Amended and Restated Limited Liability Limited Partnership Agreement"). As a result of these additional exchanges we will become entitled to certain tax basis adjustments reflecting the difference between the price we pay to acquire LP Units and the proportionate share of LCFH's tax basis allocable to such units at the time of the exchange. As a result, the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future may be reduced by the increase (for tax purposes) in depreciation and amortization deductions attributable to our interests in LCFH, although the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may challenge all or part of that tax basis adjustment, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with certain of the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners that provides for the payment by us to them of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local tax that we realize as a result of (i) the tax basis adjustments referred to above, (ii) any incremental tax basis adjustments attributable to payments made pursuant to the tax receivable agreement and (iii) any deemed interest deductions arising from payments made by us pursuant to the tax receivable agreement. While the actual amount of the adjusted tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the basis of our proportionate share of LCFH's assets on the dates of exchanges, the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the deductions and other adjustments to taxable income to which LCFH is entitled, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that during the anticipated term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners could be substantial. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will give rise to additional tax benefits and therefore to additional potential payments under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides for interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return for the taxable year with respect to which the payment obligation arises to the date of payment under the agreement. Ladder Capital Corp will have the right to terminate the tax receivable agreement by making payments to the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners calculated by reference to the present value of all future payments that of the Continuing LCFH Limited Partners would have been entitled to receive under the tax receivable agreement using certain valuation assumptions, including assumptions that any LP Units and Class B 59 Table of Contents common stock that have not been exchanged are deemed exchanged for the market value of the Class A common stock at the time of termination and that LCFH will have sufficient taxable income in each future taxable year to fully realize all potential tax savings. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement, and/or (ii) distributions to us by LCFH are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid its taxes and other obligations. For example, were the IRS to challenge a tax basis adjustment, or other deductions or adjustments to taxable income of LCFH, the existing unitholders of LCFH will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement, except that excess payments made to an existing unitholder will be netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the existing unitholders of LCFH under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our ultimate cash tax savings. In addition, the payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon any recipient's continued ownership of interests in us or LCFH. A Continuing LCFH Limited Partner that exchanges its LP Units and shares of Class B common stock for our Class A common stock will receive payments under the tax receivable agreement until such time that it validly assigns or otherwise transfers its right to receive such payments. In certain cases, payments by us under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, we elect an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, the amount of our (or our successor's) payment obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired LP Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) will be determined based on certain assumptions. These assumptions include the assumption that we (or our successor) will have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. Moreover, in the event we elect an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits (based on the foregoing assumptions). Accordingly, if we so elect, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. We may not be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement and our existing indebtedness may limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us to pay these obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 