Item 1A. Risk FactorsRISK FACTORSInvesting in our securities involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face; however, they discuss the presently known principal risks of investing in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The risk factors described below are the principal risk factors associated with an investment in our securities, as well as those factors generally associated with a business development company with investment objectives, investment policies, capital structure or trading markets similar to ours, including investments in a portfolio of small and developing or financially troubled businesses.Risks Relating to Economic ConditionsEconomic recessions or downturns may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loans.Economic recessions or downturns may result in a prolonged period of market illiquidity which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results.In addition, to the extent that recessionary conditions return, the financial results of middle market companies, like those in which we invest, would likely experience deterioration, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting debt service requirements and an increase in defaults. Additionally, the end markets for certain of our portfolio companies’ products and services would likely experience negative economic trends. The performances of certain of our portfolio companies have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by these economic or other conditions, which may ultimately result in our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies and/or losses or charge offs related to our investments, and, in turn, may adversely affect distributable income. Further, adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. As a result, we may need to modify the payment terms of our investments, including changes in payment-in-kind interest provisions and/or cash interest rates. These factors may result in our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies and/or losses or charge offs related to our investments, and, in turn, may adversely affect distributable income and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.21Further downgrades of the U.S. credit rating, impending automatic spending cuts or another government shutdown could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the U.S. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling on multiple occasions, ratings agencies have lowered or threatened to lower the long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. Absent further quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, disagreement over the federal budget has caused the U.S. federal government to shut down for periods of time. Continued adverse political and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Global economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability.The current worldwide financial market situation, as well as various social and political tensions in the United States and around the world, may contribute to increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the United States and worldwide financial markets, and may cause economic uncertainties or deterioration in the United States and worldwide. Since 2010, several European Union (“EU”) countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, have faced budget issues, some of which may have negative long-term effects for the economies of those countries and other EU countries. There is continued concern about national-level support for the Euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member countries. In addition, the fiscal policy of foreign nations, such as China, may have a severe impact on the worldwide and United States financial markets. We cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the United States economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Risks Relating to Our Business and StructureChanges in interest rates may increase our cost of capital, reduce the ability of our portfolio companies to service their debt obligations and decrease our net investment income.General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our rate of return on invested capital, our net investment income, our net asset value and the market price of our common stock. Substantially all of our debt investments will have variable interest rates that reset periodically based on benchmarks such as LIBOR and the prime rate, so an increase in interest rates from their historically low present levels may make it more difficult for our portfolio companies to service their obligations under the debt investments that we will hold. In addition, any such increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. Decreases in credit spreads on debt that pays a floating rate of return would have an impact on the income generation of our floating rate assets. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market conditions, we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of up to seven years. This means that we will be subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than an entity investing solely in shorter-term securities.Because we may borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our net investment income may be dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. Portions of our investment portfolio and our borrowings under our $175 million revolving credit facility (the "Citibank facility") and our $309 million debt securitization (the "Debt Securitization") have floating rate components. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against such interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as interest rate swap agreements, futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, all necessary registrations (or exemptions from registration) with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged borrowings. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.22A general increase in interest rates will likely have the effect of increasing our net investment income, which would make it easier for our investment adviser to receive incentive fees. Given the structure of our investment advisory agreement with our investment adviser, any general increase in interest rates would likely have the effect of making it easier for our investment adviser to meet the quarterly hurdle rate for payment of Part I fees under the investment advisory agreement. In addition, in view of the catch-up provision applicable to Part I fees under the investment advisory agreement, our investment adviser could potentially receive a significant portion of the increase in our investment income attributable to such a general increase in interest rates. If that were to occur, our increase in net earnings, if any, would likely be significantly smaller than the relative increase in our investment adviser's Part I fee resulting from such a general increase in interest rates. A significant portion of our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our Board of Directors. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors.Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more of our investments. As a result, investors that may purchase our common stock based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the realizable value of our investments might warrant.Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our investment adviser’s ability to support our investment process; if our investment adviser were to lose any of its key principals, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.We depend on the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of the principals of our investment adviser. The principals of our investment adviser evaluate, negotiate, structure, execute, monitor and service our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the principals of our investment adviser. The departure of any key principals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective.In particular, our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, analyze, invest in, finance and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Our investment adviser’s capabilities in structuring the investment process, providing competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and facilitating access to financing on acceptable terms depends on the employment of investment professionals in adequate number and of adequate sophistication to match the corresponding flow of transactions. To achieve our investment objective, our investment adviser may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals to participate in our investment selection and monitoring process. Our investment adviser may not be able to find investment professionals in a timely manner or at all. Failure to support our investment process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.RiverNorth Capital Management, LLC has publicly filed preliminary proxy materials that would solicit proxies of FSC's stockholders to terminate FSC's investment advisory agreement with our investment adviser. Although we are not party to that agreement, we believe that the termination of the investment advisory agreement between FSC and our investment adviser (or the renegotiation of the terms of that agreement) could adversely affect the ability of our investment adviser to provide an appropriate level of services to us or identify or have access to appropriate investment opportunities which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.23Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with private equity sponsors, and the inability of the principals of our investment adviser to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.We expect that the principals of our investment adviser will maintain and develop their relationships with private equity sponsors, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the principals of our investment adviser fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the principals of our investment adviser have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us.We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses.We compete for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and may have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than us. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we may be able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we cannot match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in middle market companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financial sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors may have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC.Because we borrow money, the potential for loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us.Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for loss on invested equity capital. If we continue to use leverage to partially finance our investments, through borrowings from banks and other lenders, you would experience increased risks of investing in our securities. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock distributions or scheduled debt payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and we only intend to use leverage if expected returns would exceed the cost of borrowing. We are currently targeting a debt to equity ratio of 0.85x (i.e., we aim to have one dollar of equity for each $0.85 of debt outstanding).Our incentive fee may induce our investment adviser to make speculative investments.The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser may create an incentive for our investment adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. The way in which the incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is determined, which is calculated separately in two components as a percentage of the income (subject to a hurdle rate) and as a percentage of the realized gain on invested capital, may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments or otherwise manipulate our income so as to recognize income in quarters where the hurdle rate is exceeded. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common stock.The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser also may create an incentive for our investment adviser to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we accrue the interest over the life of the investment but do not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the investment’s term, if at all. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of the incentive fee is based on income that we have not yet received in cash and may never receive in cash if the portfolio company is unable to satisfy such interest payment obligation to us. While we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a formal “claw back” right against our investment adviser per se, the amount of accrued income written off in any period will reduce the income in the period in which such write-off was taken and thereby reduce such period’s incentive fee payment.24In addition, our investment adviser receives an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no performance threshold applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns.Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions that our investment adviser may make on our behalf, we may be unable to monitor these potential conflicts of interest between us and our investment adviser.Our base management fee may induce our investment adviser to incur leverage.Our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which includes any borrowings for investment purposes, and may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions that our investment adviser may make on our behalf, we may not be able to monitor this potential conflict of interest.We may not replicate the historical performance of other investment companies with which our investment professionals have been affiliated.The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the investment activities of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private companies or thinly traded public companies with a market capitalization of less than $250 million, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. These constraints may hinder our investment adviser’s ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. Our investment adviser’s track record and achievements are not necessarily indicative of the future results it will achieve. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that we will replicate the historical performance of other investment companies with which our investment professionals have been affiliated, such as FSC, and we caution that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by such other companies.Our Citibank facility subjects significant amounts of our assets to security interests and if we default on our obligations under the credit facility, we may suffer adverse consequences, including foreclosure on our assets. Under the Citibank facility, certain of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure borrowings thereunder. If we default on our obligations under the Citibank facility, the lender has the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests or their superior claim. In such event, we may be forced to sell our investments to raise funds to repay our outstanding borrowings in order to avoid foreclosure and these forced sales may be at times and at prices we would not consider advantageous. Moreover, such deleveraging of our company could significantly impair our ability to effectively operate our business in the manner in which we intend to operate. As a result, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the distributions that we intend to pay to our stockholders.In addition, if the lender exercises its right to sell the assets pledged under the Citibank facility, such sales may be completed at distressed sale prices, thereby diminishing or potentially eliminating the amount of cash available to us after repayment of the amounts outstanding under such facility.Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). Legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if eventually passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%, as proposed. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase.25Because we intend to distribute between 90% and 100% of our income to our stockholders in connection with our election to be treated as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow would be impaired.In order to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders between 90% and 100% of our annual taxable income, except that we may retain certain net capital gains for investment, and treat such amounts as deemed distributions to our stockholders. If we elect to treat any amounts as deemed distributions, we must pay taxes at the corporate rate on such deemed distributions on behalf of our stockholders. As a result of these requirements, we will likely need to raise capital from other sources to grow our business. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, to total senior securities, which will include all of our borrowings and any outstanding preferred stock, of at least 200%. These requirements limit the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, these limitations may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so.While we expect to be able to issue additional equity securities, we cannot assure you that equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Also, as a BDC, we generally will not be permitted to issue equity securities priced below NAV without prior stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and our net asset value and share price could decline.Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted.We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of the members of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities are deemed our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we generally are prohibited from buying or selling any securities (other than our securities) from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions will limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by our investment adviser without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We have received exemptive relief from the SEC to co-invest with investment funds managed by Fifth Street Management where doing so is consistent with our investment strategy as well as applicable law (including the terms and conditions of the exemptive order issued by the SEC). Under the terms of the relief permitting us to co-invest with other funds managed by Fifth Street Management, a “required majority” (as defined in Section 57(o) of the 1940 Act) of our independent directors must make certain conclusions in connection with a co-investment transaction, including that (1) the terms of the proposed transaction, including the consideration to be paid, are reasonable and fair to us and our stockholders and do not involve overreaching of us or our stockholders on the part of any person concerned and (2) the transaction is consistent with the interests of our stockholders and is consistent with our investment objectives and strategies. We intend to co-invest, subject to the conditions included in the exemptive order we received from the SEC, with certain of our affiliates. We believe that such co-investments may afford us additional investment opportunities and an ability to achieve greater diversification. 26There are significant potential conflicts of interest, including our investment adviser’s management of FSC and certain private investment funds, which could impact our investment returns; you will not be purchasing an investment in FSC.Our executive officers and three of our independent directors, and certain members of our investment adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that may operate in the same or a related line of business as us or as investment funds managed by our affiliates. For example, Fifth Street Management presently serves as investment adviser to FSC, a publicly-traded BDC with total assets of approximately $2.6 billion as of September 30, 2015, that invests in the debt and equity of small and mid-sized companies, primarily in connection with investments by private equity sponsors, including in middle market leveraged companies similar to those we target for investment. FSC generally targets small and mid-sized companies with annual revenues between $25 million and $250 million and generally targets investment sizes ranging from $10 million to $100 million. In addition, though not the primary focus of its investment portfolio, FSC's investments also include floating rate senior loans. In contrast, we target investments ranging from between $3 million and $30 million, and generally target private leveraged middle market companies with approximately $20 million to $100 million of EBITDA. Therefore, there may be certain investment opportunities that satisfy the investment criteria for both FSC and us. In addition, certain of our executive officers and three of our independent directors serve in substantially similar capacities for FSC. Fifth Street Management also manages private investment funds, and may manage other funds in the future, that have investment mandates that are similar, in whole or in part, to ours. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the principals of our investment adviser may face conflicts of interest in the allocation of investment opportunities to us and such other funds. The fact that our investment advisory fees are lower than those of certain other funds, such as FSC, could amplify this conflict of interest. Fifth Street Management has adopted, and our Board of Directors has approved, an investment allocation policy that governs the allocation of investment opportunities among the investment funds managed by Fifth Street Management and its affiliates. To the extent an investment opportunity is appropriate for us or FSC or any other investment fund managed by our affiliates, Fifth Street Management will adhere to its investment allocation policy in order to determine to which entity to allocate the opportunity. As a BDC, we were substantially limited in our ability to co-invest in privately negotiated transactions with affiliated funds until we obtained an exemptive order from the SEC on September 9, 2014. The exemptive relief permits us to participate in negotiated co-investment transactions with certain affiliates, each of whose investment adviser is Fifth Street Management, or an investment adviser controlling, controlled by or under common control with Fifth Street Management, in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements and other pertinent factors, and pursuant to the conditions of the exemptive order. If we are unable to rely on our exemptive relief for a particular transaction, such opportunity will be allocated first to the entity whose investment strategy is the most consistent with the opportunity being allocated, and second, if the terms of the opportunity are consistent with more than one entity's investment strategy, on an alternating basis. Although our investment professionals will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, we and our common stockholders could be adversely affected to the extent investment opportunities are allocated among us and other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by, or affiliated with, our executive officers, directors and members of our investment adviser.Fifth Street Management’s investment allocation policy is also designed to manage and mitigate the conflicts of interest associated with the allocation of investment opportunities if we are able to co-invest, either pursuant to SEC interpretive positions or our exemptive order, with other accounts managed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Generally, under the investment allocation, co-investments will be allocated pursuant to the conditions of the exemptive order. Under the investment allocation policy, a portion of each opportunity that is appropriate for us and any affiliated fund will be offered to us and such other eligible accounts as determined by Fifth Street Management and generally based on asset class, fund size and liquidity, among other factors. If there is a sufficient amount of securities to satisfy all participants, the securities will be allocated among the participants in accordance with their order size and if there is an insufficient amount of securities to satisfy all participants, the securities will be allocated pro rata based on each participating party’s capital available for investment in the asset class being allocated, up to the amount proposed to be invested by each. In accordance with Fifth Street Management’s investment allocation policy, we might not participate in each individual opportunity, but will, on an overall basis, be entitled to participate equitably with other entities managed by Fifth Street Management and its affiliates. Fifth Street Management seeks to treat all clients fairly and equitably such that none receive preferential treatment vis-à-vis the others over time, in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duty to each of them; however, in some instances, especially in instances of limited liquidity, the factors may not result in pro rata allocations or may result in situations where certain funds receive allocations where others do not. Pursuant to the administration agreement with FSC CT, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of our investment adviser, FSC CT furnishes us with the facilities and administrative services necessary to conduct our day-to-day operations. We pay FSC CT its allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by FSC CT in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including a portion of the rent at market rates and the compensation of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. We utilize office space that is leased by our administrator from an affiliate controlled by the chief executive officer of our investment adviser and administrator, Mr. Tannenbaum. We also utilize 27additional office space that is leased by our affiliates in Chicago, IL and San Francisco, CA. Any reimbursement for a portion of the rent at these locations is at cost with no profit to, or markup by, FSC CT.The incentive fee we pay to our investment adviser relating to capital gains may be effectively greater than 20%.As a result of the operation of the cumulative method of calculating the capital gains portion of the incentive fee that we pay to our investment adviser, the cumulative aggregate capital gains fee that will be received by our investment adviser could be effectively greater than 20%, depending on the timing and extent of subsequent net realized capital losses or net unrealized depreciation. For additional information on this calculation, see “— Investment Advisory Agreement — Management Fee — Incentive Fee.” We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, this anticipated payment calculation would affect an investment in shares of our common stock.A failure on our part to maintain qualification as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility.If we fail to continuously qualify as a BDC, we might be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. For additional information on the qualification requirements of a BDC, see the disclosure under the caption “— Business Development Company Regulations.”Regulations that govern our operation as a BDC and RIC may affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth.As a result of the annual distribution requirement to qualify for tax-free treatment at the corporate level on income and gains distributed to stockholders, we may need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Generally, we will not be able to issue or sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share, which may be a disadvantage as compared with other public companies or private investment funds. If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We may, however, be able to sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders as well as those stockholders that are not affiliated with us approve such a sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities will be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any underwriting commission or discount).We also may make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices less than net asset value, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more shares of our common stock or issuing senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders may decline at that time and such stockholders may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on terms favorable to us or at all.In addition, we may issue “senior securities,” including borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. Our ability to issue different types of securities is also limited. Compliance with these requirements may unfavorably limit our investment opportunities and may reduce our ability in comparison to other companies to profit from favorable spreads between the rates at which we may borrow and the rates at which we may lend. As a BDC, therefore, we may need to issue equity more frequently than our privately owned competitors, which may lead to greater stockholder dilution.We expect to borrow for investment purposes. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, which could prohibit us from paying distributions and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we are unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of any debt financing we may have, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous.In addition, we may in the future seek to securitize our portfolio securities to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we would likely create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. We would then sell interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers and we would retain all or a portion of the equity in the subsidiary. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business or fully execute our business strategy and may decrease our earnings, if any. The securitization market is subject to changing market conditions and we may not be able to access this market when we would otherwise deem appropriate. Moreover, the successful securitization of our portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual investments in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act also may impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization.28We may experience fluctuations in our operating results.We may experience fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we may acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our market and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current investment objective, operating policies and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose part or all of your investment.We will be subject to corporate-level income tax on all of our income if we are unable to maintain qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or do not satisfy the annual distribution requirement.In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to maintaining qualification as a RIC and be relieved of federal taxes on income and gains distributed to our stockholders, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements:•The annual distribution requirement for a RIC would be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and we may be subject to certain financial covenants under our debt arrangements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax.•The income source requirement would be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources.•The asset diversification requirement would be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC status or to meet the annual distribution requirement for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions.We may not be able to pay you distributions, our distributions may not grow over time and/or a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital.We intend to pay distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to sustain a specified level of cash distributions or make periodic increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay distributions to our stockholders.When we make distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits will be 29treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of an investor’s basis in our stock and, assuming that an investor holds our stock as a capital asset, thereafter as a capital gain.We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.For federal income tax purposes, we may include in income certain amounts that we will have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount or accruals on a contingent payment debt instrument, which may occur if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances. Such original issue discount will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive, and may never receive, in cash.Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to be relieved of U.S. federal taxes on income and gains distributed to our stockholders. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forego new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to satisfy the annual distribution requirement and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.In addition, as discussed elsewhere herein, our loans may contain PIK interest provisions. PIK interest, computed at the contractual rate specified in each loan agreement, will be added to the principal balance of the loan and recorded as interest income. To avoid the imposition of corporate-level tax on us, this non-cash source of income will need to be paid out to stockholders in cash distributions or, in the event that we determine to do so, in shares of our common stock, even though we may have not yet collected and may never collect the cash relating to the PIK interest.To the extent original issue discount and/or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash representing such income. Our investments may include original issue discount, or OID, instruments and/or contractual PIK interest. To the extent OID or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including the following: • OID instruments may have higher yields, which reflect the payment deferral and credit risk associated with these instruments; • Because we may be required to distribute amounts attributable to OID accruals, such OID accruals may create uncertainty about the source of our distributions to stockholders; • OID and PIK instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of the collateral; • PIK interest typically has the effect of increasing the outstanding principal amount of a loan, resulting in a borrower owing more at the end of the term of the loan than what it owed when the loan was originated; and • OID and PIK instruments may represent a higher credit risk than coupon loans.30We may in the future choose to pay distributions partly in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive.We may distribute taxable distributions that are payable in part in our stock. In accordance with certain applicable U.S. Treasury regulations and private letter rulings issued by the Internal Revenue Service, a RIC may treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its RIC annual distribution requirements if each stockholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or stock of the RIC, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all stockholders must be at least 20% of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each stockholder electing to receive cash must receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event will any stockholder electing to receive cash receive less than 20% of his or her entire distribution in cash. If these and certain other requirements are met, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of the distribution paid in stock will be equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the distribution as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such distributions in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a distribution in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such distributions, including in respect of all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on distributions, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.We and our investment adviser could be the target of litigation.We or our investment adviser could become the target of securities class action litigation or other similar claims if our stock price fluctuates significantly or for other reasons. The outcome of any such proceedings could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results and could continue without resolution for long periods of time. Any litigation or other similar claims could consume substantial amounts of our management’s time and attention, and that time and attention and the devotion of associated resources could, at times, be disproportionate to the amounts at stake. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties, and a material adverse impact on our financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome in litigation or other similar claims becomes probable and reasonably estimable. In addition, we could incur expenses associated with defending ourselves against litigation and other similar claims, and these expenses could be material to our earnings in future periods.We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds from an offering of our securities, on acceptable terms within an attractive timeframe.Delays in investing the net proceeds raised in an offering of shares of our common stock may cause our performance to be worse than that of other fully invested BDCs or other lenders or investors pursuing comparable investment strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any additional investments that meet our investment objective or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds of an offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.We anticipate that, depending on market conditions, it may take us a substantial period of time to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of an offering in securities meeting our investment objective. During this period, we will invest the net proceeds from an offering primarily in high quality, short-term debt securities, consistent with our business development company election and our election to be taxed as a RIC, at yields significantly below the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. As a result, any distributions that we pay during this period may be substantially lower than the distributions that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. In addition, until such time as the net proceeds of an offering are invested in securities meeting our investment objective, the market price for our common stock may decline. Thus, the return on your investment may be lower than when, if ever, our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. 31Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we may be permitted to make or that impose limits on our ability to pledge a significant amount of our assets to secure loans, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect.Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth herein and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our investment adviser to other types of investments in which our investment adviser may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.It is unclear how increased regulatory oversight and changes in the method for determining LIBOR may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR, or how such changes could affect our results of operations or financial condition.As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR, a number of British Bankers’ Association, or BBA, member banks entered into settlements with certain regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to the alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and there are ongoing investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions. Following a review of LIBOR conducted at the request of the U.K. government, on September 28, 2012, recommendations for reforming the setting and governing of LIBOR were released, which are referred to as the Wheatley Review. The Wheatley Review made a number of recommendations for changes with respect to LIBOR, including the introduction of S-5 statutory regulation of LIBOR, the transfer of responsibility for LIBOR from the BBA to an independent administrator, changes to the method of the compilation of lending rates and new regulatory oversight and enforcement mechanisms for rate-setting and a reduction in the number of currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is published. Based on the Wheatley Review and on a subsequent public and governmental consultation process, on March 25, 2013, the U.K. Financial Services Authority published final rules for the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s regulation and supervision of LIBOR, which are referred to as the FCA Rules. In particular, the FCA Rules include requirements that (1) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of practice standards and/or potentially manipulative behavior, and (2) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear conflicts of interest policy and appropriate systems and controls.It is uncertain what additional regulatory changes or what changes, if any, in the method of determining LIBOR may be required or made by the U.K. government or other governmental or regulatory authorities. Accordingly, uncertainty as to the nature of such changes may adversely affect the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations.We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our shares of common stock less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the “JOBS Act.” As a result, we have taken advantage of the exemption for emerging growth companies allowing us to temporarily forgo the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We cannot predict if investors will find shares of our common stock less attractive because we will rely on this exemption. If some investors find our shares of common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our shares and our share price may be more volatile. We did not take advantage of other disclosure or reporting exemptions for emerging growth companies under the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (a) the last day of the fiscal year (i) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (ii) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1 billion, or (iii) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of our prior second fiscal quarter, and (b) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods.32As set forth in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” for the period ended September 30, 2015, we identified a material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB"). The PCAOB defines a material weakness as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis.We have taken and will take a number of actions to remediate this material weakness, as set forth in Item 9A. While we have started to implement these measures, some of these measures will take time to be fully integrated and confirmed to be effective. We cannot assure you that the steps taken will remediate such weaknesses, nor can we be certain of whether additional actions will be required or the costs of any such actions. Until measures are fully implemented and tested, the identified material weakness may continue to exist.We may need to take additional measures to fully mitigate these issues, and the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or other material weaknesses or deficiencies will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition.Future control deficiencies could prevent us from accurately and timely reporting our financial results.We may identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, including significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of a company’s financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.Our failure to identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or remediate any deficiencies, or the identification of material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future could prevent us from accurately and timely reporting our financial results.We are subject to risks associated with communications and information systems. We depend on the communications and information systems of our investment adviser and its affiliates as well as certain third-party service providers. As our reliance on these systems has increased, so have the risks posed to these communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption in these systems could cause disruptions in our activities. In addition, these systems are subject to potential attacks, including through adverse events that threaten the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. These attacks, which may include cyber incidents, may involve a third party gaining unauthorized access to our communications or information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. Any such attack could result in disruption to our business, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our business relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company.As a publicly-traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other rules implemented by the SEC and the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Upon ceasing to qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will increase costs associated with our periodic reporting requirements.33Risks Relating to Our InvestmentsOur investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or parts of our investments.The companies in which we invest are typically highly leveraged, and, in most cases, our investments in such companies are not rated by any rating agency. If such investments were rated, we believe that they would likely receive a rating from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization of below investment grade, which is often referred to as “junk.” Exposure to below investment grade securities involves certain risks, and those securities are viewed as having predominately speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Investing in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies:•may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of our portfolio companies that we may have obtained in connection with our investments, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of the equity components of our investments;•may not have collateral sufficient to pay any outstanding interest or principal due to us in the event of a default by these companies;•may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or significant customer concentrations than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;•are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on one or more of our portfolio companies and, in turn, on us;•generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and/or•generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and as a result may lose part or all of our investment.Further, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources.We may incur greater risk with respect to investments we acquire through assignments or participations of interests.We may acquire senior loans through assignments or participations of interests in such loans. The purchaser of an assignment typically succeeds to all the rights and obligations of the assigning institution and becomes a lender under the credit agreement with respect to such debt obligation. However, the purchaser’s rights can be more restricted than those of the assigning institution, and we may not be able to unilaterally enforce all rights and remedies under an assigned debt obligation and with regard to any associated collateral. A participation typically results in a contractual relationship only with the institution participating out the interest and not directly with the borrower. Sellers of participations typically include banks, broker-dealers, other financial institutions and lending institutions. In purchasing participations, we generally will have no right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the loan agreement against the borrower, and we may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which we have purchased the participation. As a result, we will be exposed to the credit risk of both the borrower and the institution selling the participation. Further, in purchasing participations in lending syndicates, we will not be able to conduct the same level of due diligence on a borrower or the quality of the senior loan with respect to which we are buying a participation as we would conduct if we were investing directly in the senior loan. This difference may result in us being exposed to greater credit or fraud risk with respect to such senior loans than we expected when initially purchasing the participation.34An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies.We invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, including typically a lack of audited financial statements and ratings by third parties. We therefore must rely on the ability of our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks of investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information may not be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. These factors could affect our investment returns.We may allocate the net proceeds from an offering in ways with which you may not agree.We have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds of an offering, and may do so in a way with which you may not agree. Additionally, our investment adviser will select our investments subsequent to the closing of an offering, and our stockholders will have no input with respect to such investment decisions. Further, other than general limitations that may be included in a future credit facility, the holders of our debt securities will generally not have veto power or a vote in approving any changes to our investment or operational policies. These factors increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our securities. In addition, pending such investments, we will invest the net proceeds from an offering primarily in high quality, short-term debt securities, consistent with our business development company election and our election to be taxed as a RIC, at yields significantly below the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. If we are not able to identify or gain access to suitable investments, our income may be limited.Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, some of our investments in such companies.We invest primarily in senior secured loans, including unitranche and second lien debt instruments, as well as unsecured debt instruments, issued by our portfolio companies. If we invest in unitranche, second lien, or unsecured debt instruments, our portfolio companies typically may be permitted to incur other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, such debt instruments. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we will be entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we will invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. In such cases, after repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we will invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.If we invest in the securities and obligations of distressed or bankrupt companies, such investments may be subject to significant risks, including lack of income, extraordinary expenses, uncertainty with respect to satisfaction of debt, lower-than-expected investment values or income potentials and resale restrictions.We are authorized to invest in the securities and obligations of distressed or bankrupt companies. At times, distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require us to bear certain extraordinary expenses (including legal, accounting, valuation and transaction expenses) in order to protect and recover our investment. Therefore, to the extent we invest in distressed debt, our ability to achieve current income for our stockholders may be diminished.We also will be subject to significant uncertainty as to when and in what manner and for what value the distressed debt we invest in will eventually be satisfied (e.g., through a liquidation of the obligor’s assets, an exchange offer or plan of reorganization involving the distressed debt securities or a payment of some amount in satisfaction of the obligation). In addition, even if an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to distressed debt held by us, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by us in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will not have a lower value or income potential than may have been anticipated when the investment was made.Moreover, any securities received by us upon completion of an exchange offer or plan of reorganization may be restricted as to resale. As a result of our participation in negotiations with respect to any exchange offer or plan of reorganization with respect to an issuer of distressed debt, we may be restricted from disposing of such securities.35The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.We invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. In fact, all of our assets may be invested in illiquid securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses.We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies.After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment.The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.Most of our investments will likely involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us.There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.Even though we structure most of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provide managerial assistance to such a portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance.Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we may make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us.To a certain extent, loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing first priority debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any.The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we may make to portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken with respect to the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of 36enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.We generally do not control our portfolio companies.We generally do not control our portfolio companies, even though our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as a debt investor. Due to the lack of liquidity for our anticipated investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.Defaults by our portfolio companies would harm our operating results.A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we may hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.Our portfolio may be limited to a small number of industries, which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if there is a downturn in any such industry.Our portfolio may be limited to a small number of industries. A downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize.As of September 30, 2015, our investments in the Internet and software services industry represented approximately 28% of the fair value of our portfolio and our investments in the healthcare services industry represented approximately 16% of the fair value of our portfolio. If an industry in which we have significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, as these industries have to varying degrees, a material portion of our investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.Our investments in the Internet software and services sector face considerable uncertainties including volatility, intense competition, decreasing life cycles, product obsolescence, changing consumer preferences, periodic downturns, regulatory concerns and litigation risks.As of September 30, 2015, our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the Internet software and services sector represents approximately 28% of the fair value our total portfolio. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of technology-related companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. In addition, because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by technology-related sectors have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the average selling prices of products and services offered by our portfolio companies that operated in technology-related sectors may decrease over time, which could adversely affect their operating results and, correspondingly, the value of any investments that we may hold. Our investments in Internet and software companies are subject to substantial risks. For example, our portfolio companies face intense competition since their businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and are subject to changing technology, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Internet and software companies have many competitors in different industries, including general purpose search engines, vertical search engines and e-commerce sites, social networking sites, traditional media companies, and providers of online products and services. Potential competitors to our portfolio companies in the Internet and software industries range from large and established companies to emerging startups.Further, such companies are subject to laws that were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by a company’s users, a company’s products and services, or content generated by a company’s users. Further, the growth of Internet and software companies into a variety of new fields implicate a variety of new regulatory issues and may 37subject such companies to increased regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. As a result, these portfolio company investments face considerable risk. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect the value of the Internet and software companies in our portfolio.Our investments in the healthcare sector face considerable uncertainties including substantial regulatory challenges. As of September 30, 2015, our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the healthcare sector represent nearly 16% of our total portfolio. Our investments in the healthcare sector are subject to substantial risks. The laws and rules governing the business of healthcare companies and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force our portfolio companies engaged in healthcare to change how they do business, restrict revenue, increase costs, change reserve levels and change business practices. Healthcare companies often must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of their products, change prices for certain regulated products and consummate some of their acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failing to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce revenue or increase costs. Policy changes on the local, state and federal level, such as the expansion of the government’s role in the healthcare arena and alternative assessments and tax increases specific to the healthcare industry or healthcare products as part of federal health care reform initiatives, could fundamentally change the dynamics of the healthcare industry. We are subject to risks associated with our investments in energy companies. As of September 30, 2015, our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the energy sector represent 0.70% of our total portfolio. The energy industry has been in a period of disruption and volatility that has been characterized by decreases in oil and gas prices and production levels. This disruption and volatility has led to, and future disruptions and volatility may lead to, decreases in the credit quality and performance of certain of our debt and equity investments in energy companies, which could, in turn, negatively impact the fair value of our investments in energy companies. Any prolonged decline in oil and gas prices or production levels could adversely impact the ability of our portfolio companies in the energy industry to satisfy financial or operating covenants that may be imposed by us and other lenders or to make payments to us as and when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, energy companies are subject to supply and demand fluctuations in the markets in which they operate, which are impacted by a numerous factors, including weather, use of renewable fuel sources, natural disasters, governmental regulation and general economic conditions, in addition to the effects of increasing regulation and general operational risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the performance and value of our energy-related investments as well as our cash flows from such investments.We may not realize gains from our equity investments.Although we primarily invest in senior loans, certain of our investments may include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may make direct equity investments in companies. Our intended goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we may receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from the equity interests we may hold, if any, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any such equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we may experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We may seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these put rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress.We are subject to certain risks associated with foreign investments.We may make investments in foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in foreign exchange rates, exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, our foreign investments generally do not constitute "qualifying assets" under the 1940 Act, which qualifying assets must represent at least 70% of our total assets. See “Business Development Company Regulation — Qualifying Assets.” 38Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole.We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions.We may enter into hedging transactions, which may expose us to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions and amounts due under our credit facilities from changes in market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may include counterparty credit risk. Utilizing such hedging instruments does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions and amounts due under our credit facilities or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price.The success of any hedging transactions, if any, will depend on our ability to correctly predict market movements and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings or credit facilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. See also “— Changes in interest rates may increase our cost of capital, reduce the ability of our portfolio companies to service their debt obligations and decrease our net investment income."We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore have few restrictions with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single industry or issuer.We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single industry or issuer, excluding limitations on investments in other investment companies. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of industries or issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the industry or issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond RIC diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be limited to relatively few industries or issuers.We are subject to risks associated with the Debt Securitization.As a result of the Debt Securitization, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below. We use the term “debt securitization” to describe a form of secured borrowing under which an operating company (sometimes referred to as an “originator” or “sponsor”) acquires or originates mortgages, receivables, loans or other assets that earn income, whether on a one-time or recurring basis (collectively, “income producing assets”), and borrows money on a non-recourse basis against a legally separate pool of loans or other income producing assets. In a typical debt securitization, the originator transfers the loans or income producing assets to a single-purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary (also referred to as a “special purpose entity”), which is established solely for the purpose of holding loans and income producing assets and issuing debt secured by these income producing assets. The special purpose entity completes the borrowing through the issuance of notes secured by the loans or other assets. The special purpose entity may issue the notes in the capital markets to a variety of investors, including banks, non-bank financial institutions and other investors. In the Debt Securitization, institutional investors purchased $222.6 million long-term secured notes (the “2015 Notes”) issued by FS Senior Funding Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary, in a private placement.39We are subject to certain risks as a result of our interests in the junior notes and membership interests of the 2015 Issuer.Under the terms of the master transfer agreement governing the Debt Securitization, we sold to FS Senior Funding Ltd. (the “2015 Issuer”) all of our ownership interest in certain of our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in such master transfer agreement. Following this transfer, the 2015 Issuer held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the Debt Securitization and as of September 30, 2015, we held the Class C Senior Secured Notes (the “Class C Notes”) as well as all of the Subordinated Notes (the “Subordinated Notes”) of the 2015 Issuer. As a result, we consolidate the financial statements of the 2015 Issuer, as well as our other subsidiaries, in our consolidated financial statements. Because the 2015 Issuer is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the sale or contribution by us to the 2015 Issuer did not constitute a taxable event for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service were to take a contrary position, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The Class C Notes are subordinated obligations of the 2015 Issuer.The Class C Notes are the most junior class of rated notes issued by the 2015 Issuer, are subordinated in priority of payment to the Class A-T Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes, Class A-R Senior Secured Revolving Floating Rate Notes, Class A-S Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes (collectively, the “Class A Notes”) and the Class B Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes (the “Class B Notes,” and, together with the Class A Notes, the “Senior 2015 Notes,” and, together with the Class C Notes, the “2015 Notes”) and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the Debt Securitization. Therefore, we only receive cash distributions on the Class C Notes if the 2015 Issuer has made all cash interest payments on all the Senior 2015 Notes it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the 2015 Issuer’s portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaulted loans or individual fund assets, the value of the Class C Notes at their redemption will be reduced because the Class C Notes are junior to the Senior 2015 Notes and will bear losses of the 2015 Issuer’s portfolio of loan investments prior to the Senior 2015 Notes.The 2015 Issuer, as holders of the Subordinated Notes, is the residual claimant on funds, if any, remaining after holders of all classes of 2015 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date or upon maturity of such notes under the Debt Securitization documents. The Subordinated Notes in the 2015 Issuer represent all of the residual interest in the 2015 Issuer, and, as the holder of the Subordinated Notes, we may receive distributions, if any, only to the extent that the 2015 Issuer makes distributions out of funds remaining after holders of all classes of 2015 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date any amounts due and owing on such payment date or upon maturity of such 2015 Notes.The interests of holders of the senior classes of securities issued by the 2015 Issuer may not be aligned with our interests.The Class A Notes are the debt obligations ranking senior in right of payment to other securities issued by the 2015 Issuer in the Debt Securitization. As such, there are circumstances in which the interests of holders of the Class A Notes may not be aligned with the interests of holders of the other classes of notes issued by the 2015 Issuer. For example, under the terms of the Class A Notes, holders of the Class A Notes have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to holders of the Class B Notes, the Class C Notes and the 2015 Issuer and the holders of the Class B Notes have the right to receive payments of the principal and interest prior to the holders of the Class C Notes.For as long as the Class A Notes remain outstanding, holders of the Class A Notes comprise the most senior class of notes outstanding of the 2015 Issuer (the “Controlling Class”) under the Debt Securitization. If the Class A Notes are paid in full, the Class B Notes would comprise the Controlling Class under the Debt Securitization. Holders of the Controlling Class under the Debt Securitization have the right to act in certain circumstances with respect to the portfolio loans in ways that may benefit their interests but not the interests of holders of more junior classes of notes and Subordinated Notes, including by exercising remedies under the indenture in the Debt Securitization.If an event of default has occurred and acceleration occurs in accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the Debt Securitization, the Controlling Class, as the most senior class of notes then outstanding in the Debt Securitization will be paid in full before any further payment or distribution on the more junior classes of notes and Subordinated Notes. In addition, if an event of default under the Debt Securitization occurs, holders of a majority of the Controlling Class of the Debt Securitization may be entitled to determine the remedies to be exercised under the indenture, subject to the terms of such indenture. For example, upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect to the notes issued by the 2015 Issuer, the trustee or holders of a majority of the Controlling Class may declare the principal, together with any accrued interest, of all the notes of such class and any junior classes to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the principal on such notes, triggering a repayment obligation on the part of the 2015 Issuer. If at such time the portfolio loans were not performing well, the 2015 Issuer may not have sufficient proceeds available to enable the trustee under the indenture to repay the obligations of holders of the 2015 Notes or the Subordinated Notes.40Remedies pursued by the Controlling Class could be adverse to the interests of the holders of the 2015 Notes that are subordinated to the Controlling Class, and the Controlling Class will have no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect on such other interests. Thus, we cannot assure you that any remedies pursued by the Controlling Class will be in the best interests of the 2015 Issuer or us or that the 2015 Issuer or we will receive any payments or distributions upon an acceleration of the notes. In a liquidation under the Debt Securitization, the Class C Notes will be subordinated to payment of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes and may not be paid in full to the extent funds remaining after payment of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes are insufficient. In addition, under the Debt Securitization, after the Class A Notes and Class B Notes are paid in full, the holder of the Class C Notes will be the only remaining noteholder and may amend the applicable indenture to, among other things, direct the assignment of any remaining assets to other wholly-owned subsidiaries for a price less than the fair market value of such assets with the difference in price to be considered an equity contribution to such subsidiaries. Any failure of the 2015 Issuer to make distributions on the notes we indirectly or directly hold, whether as a result of an event of default, liquidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may result in an inability of us to make distributions sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC.The 2015 Issuer may fail to meet certain asset coverage tests.Under the documents governing the Debt Securitization, there are two asset coverage tests applicable to the 2015 Notes. The first such test compares the amount of interest received on the portfolio loans held by the 2015 Issuer to the amount of interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes, the Class B Notes and the Class C Notes, with respect to the 2015 Issuer. To meet this first test, interest received on the portfolio loans must equal at least 200.0% of the interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes and Class B Notes, taken together, and at least 175.00% of the interest payable in respect of the Class C Notes. The second such test compares the principal amount of the portfolio loans of the applicable debt securitization to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes, the Class B Notes and the Class C Notes. To meet this second test at any time, the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio loans must equal at least 144.95% of the Class A Notes and the Class B Notes, taken together, and 131.63% of the Class C Notes. If any asset coverage test with respect to the Class A Notes, the Class B Notes or Class C Notes is not met, proceeds from the portfolio of loan investments that otherwise would have been distributed to the holders of the Class C Notes and the 2015 Issuer will instead be used to redeem first the Class A Notes and then the Class B Notes, to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable asset coverage tests on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all payments made in respect of the notes, which we refer to as a mandatory redemption, or to obtain the necessary ratings confirmation.The value of the Class B Notes or the Class C Notes could be adversely affected by a mandatory redemption because such redemption could result in the applicable notes being redeemed at par at a time when they are trading in the secondary market at a premium to their stated principal amount and when other investments bearing the same rate of interest may be difficult or expensive to acquire. A mandatory redemption could also result in a shorter investment duration than a holder of such notes may have wanted or anticipated, which could, in turn, result in such a holder incurring breakage costs on related hedging transactions. In addition, the reinvestment period under the Debt Securitization may extend through as late as May 28, 2019, which could affect the value of the collateral securing the Class C Notes. We may not receive cash from the 2015 Issuer.We receive cash from the 2015 Issuer only to the extent of payments on the Class C Notes and distributions, if any, with respect to the membership interests of the 2015 Issuer as permitted under the Debt Securitization. The 2015 Issuer may only make payments on such securities to the extent permitted by the payment priority provisions of the indenture governing the Debt Securitization, which generally provide that principal payments on the Class C Notes may not be made on any payment date unless all amounts owing under the Class A Notes and Class B Notes are paid in full. If the 2015 Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the Debt Securitization, cash would be diverted from the Class C Notes to first pay the Class A Notes and Class B Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied. In the event that we fail to receive cash indirectly from the 2015 Issuer, we could be unable to make such distributions in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all.41We may be required to assume liabilities of the 2015 Issuer and are indirectly liable for certain representations and warranties in connection with the Debt Securitization.The structure of the Debt Securitization is intended to prevent, in the event of our bankruptcy, the consolidation of the 2015 Issuer with our operations. If the true sale of the assets in the Debt Securitization was not respected in the event of our insolvency, a trustee or debtor-in-possession might reclaim the assets of the 2015 Issuer for our estate. However, in doing so, we would become directly liable for all of the indebtedness then outstanding under the Debt Securitization, which would equal the full amount of debt of the 2015 Issuer reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, we cannot assure you that the recovery in the event we were consolidated with the 2015 Issuer for purposes of any bankruptcy proceeding would exceed the amount to which we would otherwise be entitled as the holder of the Class C Notes had we not been consolidated with the 2015 Issuer.In addition, in connection with the Debt Securitization, we gave the lenders certain customary representations with respect to the legal structure of the 2015 Issuer, and the quality of the assets transferred to each entity. We remain liable for any breach of such representations for the life of the Debt Securitization.The 2015 Issuer may issue additional 2015 Notes.Under the terms of the Debt Securitization documents, the 2015 Issuer could issue additional 2015 Notes in any class at any time during the reinvestment period on a pro rata basis for each class of notes (but not for each sub-class) and use the net proceeds of such issuance to purchase additional portfolio loans or for another permitted use as provided in the Debt Securitization documents. Any such additional issuance, however, would require the consent of the collateral manager to the Debt Securitization and the holders of a majority of the Subordinated Notes. Among the other conditions that must be satisfied in connection with an additional issuance of 2015 Notes, the aggregate principal amount of all additional issuances of any class of 2015 Notes may not exceed 100% of the outstanding principal amount of such class of 2015 Notes; the 2015 Issuer must notify each rating agency of such issuance prior to the issuance date and such rating agency, if it then rates any class of 2015 Notes, must confirm in writing that no immediate withdrawal or reduction with respect to its then-current rating of any such class of 2015 Notes will occur as a result of such issuance; and the terms of the 2015 Notes to be issued must be identical to the terms of previously issued 2015 Notes of the same class (except that all monies due on such additional 2015 Notes will accrue from the issue date of such notes and that the prices of such 2015 Notes do not have to be identical to those of the initial 2015 Notes). We do not expect to cause the 2015 Issuer to issue any additional 2015 Notes at this time. The total purchase price for any additional 2015 Notes that may be issued may not always equal 100% of the par value of such 2015 Notes, depending on several factors, including fees and closing expenses. Restructurings of investments of our Debt Securitization may decrease their value and reduce amounts payable on the 2015 Notes.We and FS Senior Funding Ltd. have entered into a collateral management agreement, an agreement entered into between a manager and a debt securitization vehicle or similar issuer, which sets forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which the manager provides advisory and/or management services with respect to the client’s securities portfolio. Under the collateral management agreement, we serve as collateral manager of the Debt Securitization. In addition, we retained our investments adviser to furnish collateral management sub-advisory services to us pursuant to a sub-collateral management agreement with our investment adviser. Our investment adviser is a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act.We have broad authority to direct and supervise the investment and reinvestment of the investments held by the Debt Securitization, which may include exercising or enforcing, or refraining from exercising or enforcing, any or all of the Debt Securitization’s rights in connection with the execution of amendments, waivers, modifications and other changes to the investment documentation in accordance with the collateral management agreement. During periods of economic uncertainty and recession, the incidence of amendments, waivers, modifications and restructurings of investments may increase. Such amendments, waivers, modifications and other restructurings will change the terms of the investments and in some cases may result in the Debt Securitization holding assets not meeting its criteria for investments. This could adversely impact the coverage tests under the indenture governing the 2015 Notes. Any amendment, waiver, modification or other restructuring that reduces the Debt Securitization’s compliance with certain financial tests will make it more likely that the Debt Securitization will need to utilize cash to pay down the unpaid principal amount of the 2015 Notes to cure any breach in such test instead of making payments on the 2015 Notes. Any such use of cash would reduce distributions available and delay the timing of payments to us.We cannot assure you that any particular restructuring strategy pursued by us or any successor collateral manager will maximize the value of or recovery on any investment. Any restructuring can fundamentally alter the nature of the related investment, and restructurings are not subject to the same underwriting standards that are employed in connection with the origination or acquisition of investments. Any restructuring could alter, reduce or delay the payment of interest or principal on 42any investment, which could delay the timing and reduce the amount of payments made to us. Restructurings of investments might also result in extensions of the term thereof, which could delay the timing of payments made to us.The Debt Securitization depends on the managerial expertise available to the collateral manager and its key personnel.The Debt Securitization’s activities are directed by us (or any successor collateral manager). We have retained the investment adviser to furnish collateral management sub-advisory services. In our capacity as holder of the 2015 Notes, we are generally not able to make decisions with respect to the management, disposition or other realization of any investment, or other decisions regarding the business and affairs of the Debt Securitization. Consequently, the success of the Debt Securitization will depend, in large part, on the financial and managerial expertise of the investment adviser’s investment professionals. There can be no assurance that such investment professionals will continue to serve in their current positions or continue to be authorized persons of the investment adviser. Although such investment professionals will devote such time as they determine in their discretion is reasonably necessary to fulfill the collateral manager’s obligations to the Debt Securitization effectively, they will not devote all of their professional time to the affairs of the Debt Securitization.Our ability to transfer the 2015 Notes is limited.The notes issued pursuant to the Debt Securitization are illiquid investments and subject to extensive transfer restrictions, and no party is under any obligation to make a market for the notes. There is no market for the notes, and we may not be able to sell or otherwise transfer the 2015 Notes at their fair value, or at all, in the event that we determine to sell them. During economic downturns, notes issued in securitization transactions may experience high volatility and significant fluctuations in market value. Additionally, some potential buyers of such notes now view securitization products as an inappropriate investment, thereby reducing the number of potential buyers and/or potentially affecting liquidity in the secondary market. Risks Relating to Our SecuritiesShares of some closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, have traded at a discount to their NAV.Shares of some closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, have traded at a discount to their NAV. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and BDCs is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below NAV. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. We cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not decline at any time. In addition, our common stock has at times traded below its net asset value since our inception and if our common stock continues to trade below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at its market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders (including our unaffiliated stockholders) and our independent directors for such issuance.Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk.The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:•significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;•inability to obtain any exemptive relief that may be required by us from the SEC, if any;•changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs and BDCs;•loss of our BDC or RIC status;•changes in earnings or variations in operating results;•changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;•any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;43•departure of our investment adviser’s key personnel; and•general economic trends and other external factors.Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues for a sustained period of time, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock.If we issue debt securities, the net asset value and market value of our common stock may become more volatile. We cannot assure you that the issuance of debt securities would result in a higher yield or rate of return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of debt securities would likely cause the net asset value and market value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the interest rate on the debt securities were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the interest rate on the debt securities, were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the use of leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued the debt securities. Any decline in the net asset value of our investment would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of debt securities. This decline in net asset value would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for our common stock. There is also a risk that, in the event of a sharp decline in the value of our net assets, we would be in danger of failing to maintain required asset coverage ratios which may be required by the debt securities or of a downgrade in the ratings of the debt securities or our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the distribution requirements on the interest payments on the debt securities. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund redemption of some or all of the debt securities. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the debt securities. Holders of debt securities may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs. The trading market or market value of our debt securities or any convertible debt securities, if issued to the public, may be volatile. Our debt securities or any convertible debt securities, if issued to the public, may or may not have an established trading market. We cannot assure investors that a trading market for our debt securities or any convertible debt securities, if issued to the public, would develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities or any convertible debt securities, if issued to the public. These factors would likely include, but are not limited to, the following: •the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; •the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; •the general economic environment; •the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; •the redemption, repayment or convertible features, if any, of these debt securities; •the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and •market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. There also may be a limited number of buyers for our debt securities, if issued to the public. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of such debt securities or the trading market for such debt securities. Our debt securities may include convertible features that cause them to more closely bear risks associated with an investment in our common stock. 44Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect the return on any debt securities. If we issue any debt securities or any convertible debt securities that are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In addition, if the debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In this circumstance, a holder of our debt securities may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the debt securities being redeemed. The issuance of warrants or convertible debt that are exchangeable for our common stock, will cause your interest in us to be diluted as a result of any such warrants or convertible debt offering. Stockholders who do not fully exercise warrants or convertible debt issued to them in any offering of warrants or convertible debt to purchase our common stock should expect that they will, at the completion of the offering, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their warrants or convertible debt. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know what proportion of the common stock would be purchased as a result of any such offering. In addition, if the warrant price or convertible debt price is less than our net asset value per share of common stock at the time of such offering, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any such decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the warrant price, convertible debt price or net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of such offering or what proportion of our common stock will be purchased as a result of any such offering. However, our Board of Directors will make a good faith determination that any offering of warrants or convertible debt would result in a net benefit to existing stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.