Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, before you decide whether to make an investment in our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history as a BDC and we have not yet elected to be treated as a RIC. The Adviser has limited experience advising a BDC or a RIC, and we and our Adviser may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. We and the Adviser were formed in February 2012 and commenced operations in March 2012. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering in February 2014, we did not operate as a BDC and our Adviser had never managed a BDC. In addition, we had not qualified to be treated as a RIC. As a result of our limited operating history, we have limited operating results under these regulatory frameworks that can demonstrate to you either their effect on our business or our ability to manage our business under these frameworks. We are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with recently formed businesses, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs and RICs that do not apply to other investment vehicles previously managed by the Adviser. BDCs are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private or thinly traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. We and the Adviser have limited experience operating or advising under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. We depend upon key personnel of the Adviser for our future success. If the Adviser were to lose any of its key personnel, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on the diligence, skill, experience and network of business contacts of the investment professionals of the Adviser, in particular Messrs. Mauer and Jansen, who are also members of the Adviser’s investment committee, executive officers and members of our board of directors. We can offer no assurance that Messrs. Mauer and Jansen will continue to provide investment advice to us. The loss of either Mr. Mauer or Mr. Jansen would limit our ability to achieve our investment objective and operate as we anticipate. Messrs. Mauer and Jansen are currently supported by 16 investment professionals of whom 10 support the Adviser pursuant to the Services Agreement as well as other accounting and back-office professionals provided by Cyrus Capital under the Services Agreement. The Services Agreement has an initial term of five years and may be terminated by Cyrus Capital at any time only under certain circumstances, including if the Adviser ceases to provide investment advisory service to us. The Services Agreement may also be terminated by either Cyrus Capital or the Adviser upon 90 days’ notice prior to the initial five-year term and the expiration of each one-year anniversary thereafter. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the Adviser will continue to be supported by sufficient investment personnel and other personnel directly or pursuant to the Services Agreement. In addition, the termination of the Services Agreement by Cyrus Capital could limit our ability to achieve our investment 29 Table of Contents objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser’s network of relationships. Any inability of the Adviser to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We depend upon the Adviser to maintain its relationships with private equity sponsors, placement agents, investment banks, management groups and other financial institutions, including Stifel and Cyrus Capital, and we expect to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the Adviser or members of the Investment Team fail to maintain such relationships, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the Adviser has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future. Our relationship with Cyrus Capital may create conflicts of interest. The Cyrus Funds, managed by Cyrus Capital, own approximately 27.9% of our outstanding common stock. The Cyrus Funds also have a 38% indirect economic interest in the Adviser. The Investment Team currently includes 10 investment professionals who are employees of Cyrus Capital. These Cyrus Professionals also engage in investment advisory activities for the private investment funds managed by Cyrus Capital, including the Cyrus Funds, which could result in conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things, the allocation of investment opportunities, and may distract them from their responsibilities to us. Cyrus Capital also provides certain financial, accounting and administrative services to the Adviser pursuant to the Services Agreement with the Adviser upon which the Adviser relies to satisfy its obligations under the Administration Agreement, and is reimbursed by the Adviser for the expenses it incurs in connection with providing such services. In addition, as a result of the relationship with Cyrus Capital and the Cyrus Funds, we could be presumed to be an affiliate of the Cyrus Funds under the 1940 Act. However, a person’s status as an “affiliate” under the 1940 Act is a rebuttable presumption, which we believe we can successfully refute. As a result, we believe that we may invest in the same portfolio companies that the Cyrus Funds invest in, without seeking exemptive relief from the SEC. However, we can provide no assurance that the SEC or its staff will not take a contrary position. If the SEC or its staff does deem us to be an affiliate of Cyrus Capital, we would be required to obtain an exemptive order from the SEC in order to co-invest with affiliates of Cyrus Capital. We can offer no assurance that we will successfully obtain such an order. If we cannot co-invest with affiliates of Cyrus Capital, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Cyrus Funds may, through such co-investments, have interests that conflict with ours, including receiving fees from the portfolio company directly as well as through its economic interest in the Adviser. Our relationship with Stifel may create conflicts of interest. Stifel owns approximately 15.9% of our outstanding common stock. Stifel also has a 20% interest in the Adviser. Six members of the Adviser’s Investment Team are dual employees of the Adviser and Stifel, and also engage in investment advisory activities for Stifel, which could result in a conflict of interest and may distract them from their responsibilities to us. Mr. Kuppenheimer is a member of the Adviser’s investment committee and a member of our board of directors. Mr. Kuppenheimer is also an employee of Stifel, and will continue to engage in investment advisory activities for Stifel which could result in a conflict of interest and may distract Mr. Kuppenheimer from his responsibilities to us. Under the Stifel arrangement and subject to certain restrictions, Stifel will use its commercially reasonable efforts to present to us to review and bid on, Stifel Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated-originated leveraged 30 Table of Contents finance and high yield corporate debt opportunities consistent with our investment strategy, subject to the approval of our board of directors, as necessary under the 1940 Act, and certain other limitations. Stifel may invest in the same portfolio companies that we invest in (regardless of whether our investment arose from a Stifel-originated opportunity), and Stifel may, through such investments, have interests that conflict with ours, including receiving fees from the portfolio company directly as well as through its interest in the Adviser. We believe that we may co-invest with Stifel and its affiliates upon approval of a majority of our directors that are not “interested persons” as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act. However, we can provide no assurance that the SEC or its staff will not take a contrary position. If the SEC or its staff takes a contrary position, we would be required to obtain an exemptive order from the SEC in order to co-invest with Stifel and its affiliates. We can offer no assurance that we will successfully obtain such an order. If we cannot co-invest with Stifel and its affiliates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, Stifel, through Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., a subsidiary of Stifel’s parent, Stifel Financial Corp., will be a “principal underwriter,” as defined in the 1940 Act, by virtue of and during the term of, any future offering in which Stifel may be part of the underwriting syndicate. As a result, our ability to co-invest with Stifel will be limited during the term of any future offering in which Stifel acts as a “principal underwriter.” If we cannot co-invest with affiliates of Stifel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could negatively affect our investment returns. There may be times when the Adviser or the members of the Investment Team have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to conflicts of interest. The members of the Adviser’s investment committee and the Investment Team serve, or may serve, as officers, directors, members, or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, such as Stifel or Cyrus Capital, or of investment funds, accounts, or investment vehicles managed by the Adviser, Stifel or Cyrus Capital. Similarly, the Adviser or the members of the Investment Team may have other clients with similar, different or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In addition, the Adviser and some of its affiliates, including our officers and our non-independent directors, are not prohibited from raising money for, or managing, another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. The members of the Investment Team who are employees of Cyrus Capital, manage the Cyrus Funds, and are not prohibited from raising money for, or managing another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. The members of the Investment Team who are dual employees of the Adviser and Stifel, as well as Mr. Kuppenheimer, who is also an employee of Stifel, may continue to engage in investment advisory activities for Stifel, which could result in a conflict of interest and may distract them from their responsibilities to us. As a result, and although the Adviser and its Investment Team are subject to a written conflicts of interest policy, the time and resources the Adviser’s Investment Team and certain members of the Adviser’s investment committee could devote to us may be diverted. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities. The members of the Investment Team may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. The investment professionals of the Adviser may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, portfolio companies in which we invest. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. 31 Table of Contents There are conflicts related to other arrangements with the Adviser. We have entered into a License Agreement with the Adviser under which the Adviser has agreed to grant us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “CM Finance.” See “Business— Management Agreements—License Agreement.” In addition, we have entered into an Administration Agreement with the Adviser pursuant to which we are required to pay to the Adviser our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Adviser in performing its obligations under such Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and our chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This will create conflicts of interest that our board of directors will monitor. For example, under the terms of the license agreement, we will be unable to preclude the Adviser from licensing or transferring the ownership of the “CM Finance” name to third parties, some of whom may compete against us. Consequently, we will be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of the Adviser or others. Furthermore, in the event the license agreement is terminated, we will be required to change our name and cease using “CM Finance” as part of our name. Any of these events could disrupt our recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill we may have generated and otherwise harm our business. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend on our ability to manage our business effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business and to grow our investments and earnings. This will depend, in turn, on the Adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objective on a cost-effective basis will depend upon the Adviser’s execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and, to a lesser extent, our access to financing on acceptable terms. The Adviser’s investment professionals may have substantial responsibilities in connection with the management of other investment funds, accounts and investment vehicles. The personnel of the Adviser may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These activities may distract them from identifying new investment opportunities for us or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, although CM Investment Partners, LP was led by Messrs. Mauer and Jansen, the remaining investment team of CM Investment Partners, LP was composed of different investment professionals than the current investment team of the Adviser, which may result in materially different investment performance. The Adviser’s incentive fee structure may create incentives to it that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to the Adviser. We have entered into an Investment Advisory Agreement with the Adviser that provides that these fees will be based on the value of our gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on the value of our gross assets, the Adviser will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. This fee structure may encourage the Adviser to cause us to borrow money to finance additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of borrowed money may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor our stockholders. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how the Adviser addresses these and other conflicts of interests associated with its management services and compensation. While our board of directors is not expected to review or approve each investment decision, borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors will periodically review the Adviser’s services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors 32 Table of Contents will consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, the Adviser may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Our incentive fee may induce the Adviser to make speculative investments. The Adviser receives an incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, the Adviser may benefit when we recognize capital gains and, because the Adviser will determine when to sell a holding, the Adviser will control the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. As a result, the Adviser may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments likely to result in capital gains, compared to income-producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. We may be obligated to pay the Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss and may pay more than 20.0% of our net capital gains because we cannot recover payments made in previous years. The Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a threshold return for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay the Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. If we pay an incentive fee of 20% of our realized capital gains (net of all realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis) and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. PIK interest payments we receive will increase our assets under management and, as a result, will increase the amount of base management fees and incentive fees payable by us to the Adviser. Certain of our debt investments contain provisions providing for the payment of PIK interest. Because PIK interest results in an increase in the size of the loan balance of the underlying loan, and receipt of PIK interest will have the effect of increasing our assets under management. As a result, because the base management fee that we pay to the Adviser is based on the value of our gross assets, and receipt of PIK interest will result in an increase in the amount of the base management fee payable by us. In addition, any such increase in a loan balance due to the receipt of PIK interest will cause such loan to accrue interest on the higher loan balance, which will result in an increase in our pre-incentive fee net investment income and, as a result, an increase in incentive fees that are payable to the Adviser. The involvement of our interested directors in the valuation process may create conflicts of interest. We expect to make most of our portfolio investments in the form of loans and securities that are not publicly traded and for which there are limited or no market based price quotation is available. As a result, our board of directors will determine the fair value of these loans and securities in good faith as described below in “—Most of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.” In connection with that determination, investment professionals from the Adviser may provide our board of directors with valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. While the valuation for each portfolio investment will be reviewed by an independent valuation firm quarterly, the ultimate determination of fair value will be made by our board of directors and not by such third-party valuation firm. In addition, Messrs. Mauer and Jansen, each an interested member of our board of directors, has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the Adviser. The participation of the Adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process, and the pecuniary interest in the Adviser by certain members 33 Table of Contents of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the Adviser’s management fee is based, in part, on the value of our gross assets, and our incentive fees will be based, in part, on realized gains and realized and unrealized losses. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement with the Adviser were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to the Adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the Adviser and its affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our stockholders. Our incentive fee arrangements with the Adviser may vary from those of other investment funds, account or investment vehicles that the Adviser may manage in the future, which may create an incentive for the Adviser to devote time and resources to a higher fee-paying fund. If the Adviser is paid a higher performance-based fee from any other fund that it may manage in the future, it may have an incentive to devote more research and development or other activities, and/or recommend the allocation of investment opportunities, to such higher fee-paying fund. For example, to the extent the Adviser’s incentive compensation is not subject to a hurdle or total return requirement with respect to another fund, it may have an incentive to devote time and resources to such other fund. As a result, the investment professionals of the Adviser may devote time and resources to a higher fee-paying fund. The Adviser’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement and we have agreed to indemnify the Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead the Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement. It will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow the Adviser’s advice or recommendations. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Adviser, its officers, members and personnel, and any person controlling or controlled by the Adviser will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of the duties that the Adviser owes to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, as part of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. These protections may lead the Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We will compete with public and private funds, other BDCs, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Many 34 Table of Contents of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, we believe some of our competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our RIC qualification. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. With respect to the investments we make, we do not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be lower than the rates we offer. With respect to all investments, we may lose some investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify or maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. The distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we intend to incur debt, we will be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of our qualification as a RIC. Because most of our investments will be in private or thinly traded public companies, any such dispositions may be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate income taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distributions to our stockholders and the amount of funds available for new investments. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. See “Business— Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company.” We may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income. We may need additional capital to fund new investments and grow our portfolio of investments. We intend to access the capital markets periodically to issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. In addition, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders to maintain our qualification as a RIC. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. An inability on our part to access the capital markets successfully could limit our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy fully and could decrease our earnings, if any, which would have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. 35 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions, or our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC, SBA regulations (if applicable) and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relative from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will make distributions to our stockholders in the future. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as the accrual of OID. This may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan and in other circumstances, or through contracted PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such OID, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, and increases in loan balances as a result of contracted PIK arrangements will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain our qualification as a RIC. In such a case, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain such cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. See “Business— Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company.” We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable in cash or in shares of stock at the election of shareholders are treated as taxable dividends. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even if the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many shareholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such shareholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. If we decide to make any distributions consistent with these rulings that are payable in part in our stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (whether received in cash, our stock, or combination thereof) as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 36 Table of Contents If we form an SBIC subsidiary, such subsidiary may be unable to make distributions to us that could be necessary for us to maintain RIC status. In order for us to continue to qualify for RIC tax treatment and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we are required to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income and net capital gain income, including income of any SBIC subsidiary that we form. If we form an SBIC subsidiary, we expect that we would be partially dependent on the SBIC subsidiary for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. The SBIC subsidiary may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and SBA regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to maintain our status as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions for the SBIC subsidiary to make certain distributions to maintain our RIC status. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such waiver and if the SBIC subsidiary is unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC tax treatment and a consequent imposition of corporate-level federal income tax on us. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted as a BDC to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of our gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous to us in order to repay a portion of our indebtedness. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests, and if our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you may experience dilution. In addition, neither Stifel nor the Cyrus Funds are subject to these restrictions and may sell their respective shares of our common stock at a per share price that is below net asset value per share, which may negatively affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by reducing the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase. 37 Table of Contents Because we finance our investments with borrowed money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. If we continue to use leverage to partially finance our investments through banks, insurance companies and other lenders, you will experience increased risks of investment in our common stock. Lenders of these funds have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. As of June 30, 2014, substantially all of our assets were pledged as collateral under the Financing Facility. In addition, under the terms of the Financing Facility and any borrowing facility or other debt instrument we may enter into, we are likely to be required to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions with respect to our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to service any debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the base management fee payable to the Adviser will be payable based on the value of our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, the Adviser will have a financial incentive to incur leverage, which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the base management fee payable to the Adviser. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings (other than potential leverage in future SBIC subsidiaries, should we receive an SBIC license, subject to exemptive relief) and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we will not be able to incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is otherwise disadvantageous for us to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on the Adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual results may be higher or lower than those appearing below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio(1) (net of expenses) (10.0)% (5.0)% 0.0% 5.0% 10.0% Corresponding net return to common stockholder (15.2 )% (8.3 )% (1.3 )% 5.6 % 12.5 % (1) Assumes $308.8 million in total assets, $85.6 million in debt outstanding, $200.2 million in net assets, and an average cost of funds of 3.15%. Actual interest payments may be different. In addition, our debt facilities may impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our qualification as a RIC under the Code. 38 Table of Contents We may default under the Financing Facility or any future borrowing facility we enter into or be unable to amend, repay or refinance any such facility on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the event we default under the Financing Facility or any other future borrowing facility, our business could be adversely affected as we may be forced to sell a portion of our investments quickly and prematurely at prices that may be disadvantageous to us in order to meet our outstanding payment obligations and/or support working capital requirements under the Financing Facility or such future borrowing facility, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, following any such default, the agent for the lenders under the Financing Facility or such future borrowing facility could assume control of the disposition of any or all of our assets, including the selection of such assets to be disposed and the timing of such disposition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Provisions in the Financing Facility or any other future borrowing facility may limit our discretion in operating our business. The Financing Facility is, and any future borrowing facility may be, backed by all or a portion of our loans and securities on which the lenders will or, in the case of a future facility, may have a security interest. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instrument we enter into with lenders. We expect that any security interests we grant will be set forth in a pledge and security agreement and evidenced by the filing of financing statements by the agent for the lenders. In addition, we expect that the custodian for our securities serving as collateral for such loan would include in its electronic systems notices indicating the existence of such security interests and, following notice of occurrence of an event of default, if any, and during its continuance, will only accept transfer instructions with respect to any such securities from the lender or its designee. If we were to default under the terms of any debt instrument, the agent for the applicable lenders would be able to assume control of the timing of disposition of any or all of our assets securing such debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any security interests as well as negative covenants under the Financing Facility or any other borrowing facility may limit our ability to create liens on assets to secure additional debt and may make it difficult for us to restructure or refinance indebtedness at or prior to maturity or obtain additional debt or equity financing. In addition, if our borrowing base under the Financing Facility or any other borrowing facility were to decrease, we would be required to secure additional assets in an amount equal to any borrowing base deficiency. In the event that all of our assets are secured at the time of such a borrowing base deficiency, we could be required to repay advances under the Financing Facility or any other borrowing facility or make deposits to a collection account, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund future investments and to make stockholder distributions. In addition, under the Financing Facility or any future borrowing facility we will be subject to limitations as to how borrowed funds may be used, which may include restrictions on geographic and industry concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, average life, collateral interests and investment ratings, as well as regulatory restrictions on leverage, which may affect the amount of funding that may be obtained. There may also be certain requirements relating to portfolio performance, including required minimum portfolio yield and limitations on delinquencies and charge-offs, a violation of which could limit further advances and, in some cases, result in an event of default. An event of default under the Financing Facility or any other borrowing facility could result in an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding thereunder, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the Financing Facility or any other borrowing facility until the lenders have been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our qualification as a RIC. 39 Table of Contents Because we borrow money to make our investments, if market interest rates were to increase, our cost of capital could increase, which could reduce our net investment income. Because we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates would not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. There is no limit on our ability to enter derivative transactions. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of the amount of our pre-incentive fee net investment income and, as a result, an increase in incentive fees payable to the Adviser. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates including potential effects on our cost of capital and net investment income. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. Decreases in credit spreads on debt that pays a floating rate of return would have an impact on the income generation of our floating rate assets. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market conditions we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of up to 6 years. This means that we will be subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than an entity investing solely in shorter-term securities. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. Concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers’ Association (“BBA”) in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, but investigations and reviews of the framework for setting of LIBOR by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. In this regard, the recommendation of one governmental committee undertaking such a review will result in the transfer of the administration of LIBOR to NYSE Euronext Rates Administration Limited in early 2014. Actions by the administrator of LIBOR, regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. 40 Table of Contents If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe to be attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may not be able to find a buyer for such investments and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. Any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not maintain our status as a BDC, we would be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. As a registered closed-end investment company, we would be subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. Most of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Most of our portfolio investments will take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of loans, securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we will value these investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our investments. Most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) will be classified as Level 3 under the Financial Accountant Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820: Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”). This means that our portfolio valuations will be based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of independent service providers to review the valuation of these loans and securities. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these loans and securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such loans and securities. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. 41 Table of Contents We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the loans and debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such loans and securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are and we will remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act until the earlier of (a) the last day of the fiscal year (i) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (ii) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (iii) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (b) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company” we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on some or all of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We will take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us since our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates and may result in less investor confidence. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an 42 Table of Contents “emerging growth company” under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company” and because we will have an extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. New or amended laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies will be subject to regulation by laws at the U.S. federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws, regulations and interpretations may also come into effect. Any such new or changed laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and our filings with the SEC, and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of the Adviser to other types of investments in which the Adviser may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive our investment objective or certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the market price of our common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we receive qualification from the SBA to be licensed as an SBIC but we are unable to comply with SBA regulations thereafter, our business plan and investment objective could be adversely affected. We intend to apply for license to form an SBIC subsidiary. The application is subject to SBA approval and we can make no assurances that the SBA will approve our application. If we receive this qualification, we will become subject to SBA regulations that may constrain our activities. We may need to make allowances in our investment activity to comply with SBA regulations. In addition, SBA regulations may impose parameters on our business operations and investment objectives that are different from those we otherwise would have if we were not subject to these regulations. Failure to comply with the SBA regulations could result in the loss of the SBIC 43 Table of Contents license and the resulting inability to participate in the SBA-sponsored debenture program. The SBA also limits the maximum amount that may be borrowed by any single SBIC. The SBA also prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a “change of control” of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of a class of capital stock of a licensed SBIC. A “change of control” is any event that would result in the transfer of the power, direct or indirect, to direct the management and policies of an SBIC, whether through ownership, contractual arrangements or otherwise. To the extent that we obtain an SBIC license, this would prohibit a change of control of our SBIC subsidiary without prior SBA approval. If we are unable to comply with SBA regulations, our business plan and growth strategy could be materially adversely affected. The Adviser can resign as the Adviser or administrator upon 60 days’ notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, or at all, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. The Adviser has the right under the Investment Advisory Agreement to resign as the Adviser at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. Similarly, the Adviser has the right under the Administration Agreement to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If the Adviser were to resign, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment or administrative activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the Adviser. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Cyrus Capital can terminate the Services Agreement with the Adviser under certain conditions and we may not be able to find suitable replacement resources, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Services Agreement with Cyrus Capital is subject to an initial five-year period. However, Cyrus Capital may terminate the Services Agreement under certain circumstances prior to the expiration of its fifth anniversary whether we have found a replacement for the resources under the agreement or not. If Cyrus Capital were to terminate the Services Agreement, we may not be able to hire internal investment professionals with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment or administrative activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the investment professionals of Cyrus Capital. Even if we are able to retain comparable professionals, whether internal or external, the integration of such investment professionals and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 44 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of the Adviser, which are provided to the Adviser by Cyrus Capital pursuant to the Services Agreement directly or through third party service providers. Any failure or interruption of such systems, including as a result of the termination of the Services Agreement or an agreement with any such third party service provider, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Adverse market conditions for debt and equity capital markets in the United States and around the world could limit the availability of debt capital to us on favorable terms, or at all, which could negatively affect our financial performance and results. From 2007 through 2009, the global capital markets experienced a period of disruption resulting in increasing spreads between the yields realized on riskier debt securities and those realized on risk-free securities and a lack of liquidity in parts of the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector relating to subprime mortgages and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market. These events, along with the deterioration of the housing market, illiquid market conditions, declining business and consumer confidence and the failure of major financial institutions in the United States, led to a decline of general economic conditions. As a result, many commercial banks and other financial institutions stopped lending or significantly curtailed their lending activity. In addition, in an effort to stem losses and reduce their exposure to segments of the economy deemed to be high risk, some financial institutions limited refinancing and loan modification transactions and reviewed the terms of existing facilities to identify bases for accelerating the maturity of existing lending facilities. This economic decline materially and adversely affected the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and to financial firms in particular during that time. These conditions may recur, in which case, to the extent that we wish to use debt to fund our investments, the debt capital that will be available to us, if at all, may be at a higher cost, and on terms and conditions that may be less favorable, than what we expect, which could negatively affect our financial performance and results. In addition, if these conditions recur, it may be difficult for us to enter into a new borrowing facility, obtain other financing to finance the growth of our investments, or refinance any outstanding indebtedness on acceptable economic terms, or at all. A prolonged period of market illiquidity may cause us to reduce the volume of loans and debt securities we originate and/or fund and adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our board of directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Under Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our board of directors is authorized to classify and reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of stock, including preferred stock. Prior to issuance of shares of each class or series, the board of directors will be required by Maryland law and our charter to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to stockholder distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. Thus, the board of directors could authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or that otherwise might be in their best interest. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our common stockholders. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock may also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock 45 Table of Contents upon conversion, provided, that we will only be permitted to issue such convertible preferred stock to the extent we comply with the requirements of Section 61 of the 1940 Act, including obtaining common stockholder approval. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. Certain matters under the 1940 Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock. For example, the 1940 Act provides that holders of preferred stock are entitled to vote separately from holders of common stock to elect two preferred stock directors. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors serving staggered terms. A classified board may render a change in control of us or removal of our incumbent management more difficult. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain additional provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of CM Finance Inc or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board of directors, including approval by a majority of our independent directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our board of directors does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisitions of our stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, to amend our charter without stockholder approval and to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Relating to our Investments Economic recessions or downturns could adversely affect our portfolio companies, leading to defaults on our investments, which would harm our operating results. Many of the portfolio companies in which we expect to make investments, including those currently included in our initial portfolio, are likely to be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. In such event, the number of our non-performing assets is likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during such periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and debt securities and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations 46 Table of Contents under the loans and debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. We may hold the loans and debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant operating volatility typical of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings, and we could lose all or part of our investment, which would harm our operating results. Investment in leveraged companies involves a number of significant risks. Leveraged companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans and debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment. Smaller leveraged companies also may have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance their expansion or maintain their competitive position. Leveraged companies may also experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversarial proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by a portfolio company may adversely and permanently affect that company. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the portfolio company may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the loans or debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Credit risk is the potential loss we may incur from a failure of a company to make payments according to the terms of a contract. We are subject to credit risk because of our strategy of investing in the debt of leveraged companies and our involvement in derivative instruments. Our exposure to credit risk on our investments is limited to the fair value of the investments. Our derivative contracts are executed pursuant to an International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreement that we currently have in place with UBS with respect to the Financing Facility. Any material exposure due to counter-party risk under the Financing Facility could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we may have actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject 47 Table of Contents to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we actually render significant managerial assistance. Our investments in private and middle-market portfolio companies are risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investment in private and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we will rely on the ability of the Adviser’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns and risks from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans and debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons. Therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on one or more of the portfolio companies we invest in and, in turn, on us. Middle-market companies also may be parties to litigation and may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence. In addition, our executive officers, directors and investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in portfolio companies. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. 48 Table of Contents The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. All of our assets may be invested in illiquid loans and securities, and a substantial portion of our investments in leveraged companies will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Also, as noted above, we may be limited or prohibited in our ability to sell or otherwise exit certain positions in our initial portfolio as such a transaction could be considered a joint transaction prohibited by the 1940 Act. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments: • available current market data, including relevant and applicable market trading and transaction comparables; • applicable market yields and multiples; • security covenants; • call protection provisions; • information rights; • the nature and realizable value of any collateral; • the portfolio company’s ability to make payments, its earnings and discounted cash flows and the markets in which it does business; • comparisons of financial ratios of peer companies that are public; • comparable merger and acquisition transactions; and • principal market and enterprise values. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers or our investments are concentrated in relatively few 49 Table of Contents industries, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries, which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if there is a downturn in a particular industry in which a number of our investments are concentrated. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries. A downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. As of June 30, 2014, our investments in the oil and gas industry (including oilfield services) represented approximately 19.5% of the fair value of our portfolio, our investments in the telecommunications industry represented approximately 19.4% of the fair value of our portfolio, and our investments in the healthcare-products/services industry represented approximately 17.8% of the fair value of our portfolio. If an industry in which we have significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, as these industries have to varying degrees, a material portion of our investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our investments in the oil and gas industry face considerable uncertainties including substantial regulatory challenges. Our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the oil and gas and oilfield industries represent approximately 19.5% of our total portfolio as of June 30, 2014. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of oil and gas companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: Commodity Pricing Risk. In general, commodity prices directly affect oil and gas companies, especially for those who own the underlying commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other oil and gas companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities produced, transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect oil and gas companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Regulatory Risk. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect the profitability of oil and gas companies. Federal, state and local governments heavily regulate the businesses of oil and gas companies in diverse matters, such as the way in which assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices oil and gas companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. Production Risk. The volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for producing, transporting, processing, storing, distributing or generating power may materially impact the profitability of energy companies. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, increases in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or shifts in consumer demand for such products. 50 Table of Contents Depletion and Exploration Risk. Oil and gas companies’ commodities naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be produced profitably. In addition, exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and natural gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power or may directly affect the operations of individual companies. This weather-related risk may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Oil and gas companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors to perform their contractual obligations. In Competition Risk. The oil and gas companies in which we may invest will face substantial competition in acquiring properties, enhancing and developing their assets, marketing their commodities, securing trained personnel and operating their properties. Many of their competitors may have financial and other resources that substantially exceed their resources. Valuation Risk. The valuation of our holdings in oil and gas portfolio companies is subject to uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil, natural gas and coal and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, which are dependent upon many factors beyond our control. The estimates rely on various assumptions, including, for example, commodity prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and are therefore inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the value of our investments in oil and gas companies. Climate Change. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of oil and gas companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent climate changes affect weather conditions, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased oil and gas use due to weather changes may require additional investments by our portfolio companies in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in oil and gas use due to weather changes may affect our portfolio companies’ financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Potential lawsuits against or taxes or other regulatory costs imposed on greenhouse gas emitters could also affect oil and gas companies, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. Our investments in the healthcare industry face considerable uncertainties including substantial regulatory challenges. Our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the healthcare industry represent approximately 17.8% of our total portfolio as of June 30, 2014. Our investments in the healthcare sector are subject to substantial risks. The laws and rules governing the business of healthcare companies and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force our portfolio companies engaged in healthcare to change how they do business, restrict revenue, increase costs, change reserve levels and change business practices. 51 Table of Contents Healthcare companies often must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of their products, change prices for certain regulated products and consummate some of their acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failing to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce revenue or increase costs. Policy changes on the local, state and federal level, such as the expansion of the government’s role in the healthcare arena and alternative assessments and tax increases specific to the healthcare industry or healthcare products as part of federal health care reform initiatives, could fundamentally change the dynamics of the healthcare industry. Our investments in the telecommunications industry face considerable uncertainties including substantial regulatory challenges. Our investments in portfolio companies that operate in the telecommunications industry represent approximately 19.4% of our total portfolio as of June 30, 2014. Portfolio companies in the telecommunications sector are subject to many risks, including the negative impact of regulation, a competitive marketplace, difficulty in obtaining financing, rapid obsolescence, and agreements linking future rate increases to inflation or other factors not directly related to the active operating profits of the portfolio company. Adverse economic, business, or regulatory developments affecting the telecommunications sector could have a negative impact on the value of our investments in portfolio companies operating in this industry, and therefore could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, including exercising warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; in seeking to: • increase or maintain in whole or in part our position as a creditor or our equity ownership percentage in a portfolio company; • preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We have discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. Failure on our part to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements of the 1940 Act or the desire to maintain our qualification as a RIC. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We do not hold controlling equity positions in any of the portfolio companies included in our portfolio and, although we may do so in the future, we do not currently intend to hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we expect to hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. 52 Table of Contents Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and ability to make stockholder distributions and result in a decline in the market price of our shares. We are subject to the risk that the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We expect that our investments will generally allow for repayment at any time subject to certain penalties. When this occurs, we intend to generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in accordance with our investment strategy. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our ability to make, or the amount of, stockholder distributions with respect to our common stock, which could result in a decline in the market price of our shares. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We intend to invest a portion of our capital in second lien and subordinated loans issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the loans in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the loans in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with loans in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Additionally, certain loans that we may make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies’ collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other 53 Table of Contents factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: • the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; • the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; • the approval of amendments to collateral documents; • releases of liens on the collateral; and • waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. If we make subordinated investments, the obligors or the portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us. We may make subordinated investments that rank below other obligations of the obligor in right of payment. Subordinated investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or economic conditions in general. If we make a subordinated investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations. If we make unsecured investments, those investments might not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us. We may make unsecured investments. Unsecured investments may be subordinated to other obligations of the obligor. Unsecured investments often reflect a greater possibility that adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or general economic conditions (including, for example, a substantial period of rising interest rates or declining earnings) or both may impair the ability of the obligor to make payment of principal and interest. If we make an unsecured investment in a portfolio company that is highly leveraged, its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio could increase the risk that its operations might not generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations, and we would have no right to seize assets to satisfy the obligations to us. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. We currently expect that substantially all of our investments will involve loans and private securities. In connection with the disposition of such an investment, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us. 54 Table of Contents We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in loans and debt securities, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. We may also invest in equity securities directly. To the extent we hold equity investments, we will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, may decline in value. As a result, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. When we make distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of an investor’s basis in our stock and, assuming that an investor holds our stock as a capital asset, thereafter as a capital gain. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk, and higher volatility or loss of principal, than alternative investment options. Our investments in portfolio companies may be speculative and, therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of our qualification as a RIC or BDC; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; 55 Table of Contents • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • increases in the interest rates we pay; • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of the Adviser’s key personnel; • change in the Adviser’s relationship with Cyrus Capital under the Services Agreement; • change in the Adviser’s relationship with Stifel under the Stifel arrangement; • sales of our shares by the Cyrus Funds; • sales of our shares by Stifel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and • general economic trends and other external factors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Stifel owns approximately 15.9% of our total outstanding common stock, and the Cyrus Funds own, in the aggregate, approximately 27.9% of our total outstanding common stock. Upon expiration or waiver of any applicable lock-up periods, shares issued by us to Stifel and the Cyrus Funds in connection with the CM Finance Merger will generally be freely tradable in the public market, subject to the volume limitations, applicable holding periods and other provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, the availability of such common stock for sale or the registration of such common stock for sale and the ability of our stockholders, including Stifel and the Cyrus Funds to sell their respective shares at a price per share that is below our then current net asset value per share could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so and negatively impact the market of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 