ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Any statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future events are forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking statements reflect our current perspective of our business, future performance, existing trends and information as of the date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction, anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives and product development activities, assessments related to clinical trial results, product performance and competitive environment, and anticipated financial performance. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “intend,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “estimate,” “continue,” or “pursue,” or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors may affect our actual operating results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and uncertainties discussed under the section entitled “Risks Related to Our Business,” and other risks and uncertainties detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement. 25 Table of Contents We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and speaks as of the date of this Annual Report. These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Warner Chilcott Acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. Our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction with Warner Chilcott will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to continue integrating the Actavis and the Warner Chilcott businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we have been and will continue to be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the Warner Chilcott Acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the business of Actavis with that of Warner Chilcott; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees; • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of Actavis and Warner Chilcott are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Actavis and Warner Chilcott. All of these factors could cause a reduction to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the Actavis and Warner Chilcott businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Warner Chilcott Acquisition. We and Forest Laboratories must obtain required approvals and governmental and regulatory consents to consummate our acquisition of Forest Laboratories, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may delay or jeopardize the consummation of the transaction, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. 26 Table of Contents The Forest Laboratories transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the receipt of required approvals of our shareholders and Forest Laboratories stockholders, the approval of the merger by the U.S. Department of Justice and other governmental and regulatory authorities and the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and the relevant approvals under the antitrust, competition and foreign investment laws of certain foreign countries under which filings or approvals are or may be required. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek certain of these approvals and consents have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. We can provide no assurance that all required approvals and consents will be obtained. Moreover, as a condition to their approval of the transaction, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of Actavis’ business after the closing. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the effective time or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Further, no assurance can be given that the required stockholder approvals will be obtained or that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals. If we and Forest Laboratories agree to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the transaction, these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could adversely affect Actavis’ ability to integrate our operations with Forest Laboratories’ operations and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. This could result in a failure to consummate the transaction or have a material adverse effect on Actavis’ business and results of operations. Failure to consummate the Forest Laboratories transaction could negatively impact our share price and our future business and financial results. If the Forest Laboratories transaction is not consummated, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having consummated the transaction, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • we will be required to pay costs and expenses relating to the proposed transaction; • if the Merger Agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay to Forest Laboratories a termination fee equal to $1,175.0 million, subject to reduction in certain circumstances; • matters relating to the transaction (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; • the Merger Agreement restricts us, without Forest Laboratories’ consent and subject to certain exceptions, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger is consummated or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business that may arise prior to completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement; and • we also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to consummate the merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our respective obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the merger is not consummated, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Forest Laboratories merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. The merger may result in adverse tax consequences to Actavis. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Forest Laboratories transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our business with Forest Laboratories’ businesses. The combination of two 27 Table of Contents independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Actavis and Forest Laboratories. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of Actavis and could adversely affect Actavis’ results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our business with that of Forest Laboratories; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees; • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; • potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger, including possible adverse tax consequences to the Actavis group pursuant to the anti-inversion rules under section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended “Section 7874”) as a result of the merger; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of Actavis. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of Actavis and Forest Laboratories are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Or, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Actavis and Forest Laboratories. All of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of Actavis, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger, and negatively impact the price of Actavis’ ordinary shares. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of Actavis and Forest Laboratories businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction. Actavis will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the transaction. Actavis and Forest Laboratories will incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the merger, and over a period of time following the completion of the merger, Actavis further expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of Actavis and Forest Laboratories. While Actavis has assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond Actavis’s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by Actavis and Forest Laboratories. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period: • development of new competitive products or generics by others; 28 Table of Contents • the timing and receipt of approvals by the FDA and other regulatory authorities; • the failure to obtain, delay in obtaining or restrictions or limitations on approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • difficulties or delays in resolving FDA or other regulatory authority-observed deficiencies at our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to obtain approvals of pending product applications or curtail availability to continue production of existing products; • delays or failures in clinical trials that affect our ability to achieve FDA approvals or approvals from other regulatory authorities; • serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our products or product candidates; • changes in the amount we spend to research and develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products; • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses; • changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products; • changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans and other health insurers, including changes that affect newly developed or newly acquired products; • changes in laws and regulations concerning coverage and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, including changes to Medicare, Medicaid and similar programs; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • realization of assets and settlement of liabilities at amounts equal to estimated fair value as of the acquisition date in connection with any acquisitions or dispositions; • manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to comply with manufacturing specifications; • the effect of economic changes in hurricane, monsoon, earthquake and other natural disaster-affected areas; • the impact of third party patents and other intellectual property rights which we may be found to infringe, or may be required to license, and the potential damages or other costs we may be required to pay as a result of a finding that we infringe such intellectual property rights or a decision that we are required to obtain a license to such intellectual property rights; • changes in antitrust laws and regulations concerning settlement of patent and other intellectual property disputes, and potential damages or other costs we may be required to pay as a result of such changes; • the mix of products that we sell during any time period; • lower than expected demand for our products; • our responses to price competition; • our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the products, technologies and businesses we acquire or license, as applicable; • expenditures as a result of legal actions; • market acceptance of our products; • the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets or investments or long-lived assets; • disposition of our primary products, technologies and other rights; 29 Table of Contents • termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights; • changes in insurance rates for existing products and the cost and availability of insurance for new and existing products; • general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments that affect customer demand; • costs and outcomes of any tax audits; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • costs and outcomes of any litigation involving intellectual property, product promotional activities, drug pricing or reimbursement, product liability, customers or other issues; • timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations; • our ability to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses; and • risks related to the growth of our business across numerous countries world-wide and the inherent international economic, regulatory, political and business risks. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. Any refinancing of this substantial debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could: • impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionally less debt. Additionally, certain of our financing agreements may contain cross-default or other similar provisions whereby a default under one financing agreement could result in a default under our other financing agreements. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates, and/or incur significant transaction fees. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Facility Indebtedness” for a detailed discussion of our outstanding indebtedness. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our business operations, our business could be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents We will need to successfully integrate the operations of newly acquired businesses, including Warner Chilcott, with our business operations. Integrating the operations of new businesses with that of our own is a complex and time-consuming process. Prior to each acquisition, the acquired business operated independently, with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in any integration of other businesses with that of our own. These may include: • distracting management from day-to-day operations; • potential incompatibility of corporate cultures; • an inability to achieve synergies as planned; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; and • increased difficulties in managing our business due to the addition of international locations. These risks may be accentuated if the majority of the former businesses’ operations, employees and customers are located outside of the United States. Any one or all of these factors may increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance. Many of these factors are also outside of our control. Achieving anticipated synergies and the potential benefits underlying our reasons for any acquisition will depend on successful integration of the businesses. The failure to integrate the business operations of the acquired business successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses could adversely affect our relationships with key customers and/or could result in significant charges to earnings. We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products. In connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business, technology and information systems, customer or employee base, including diversion of management’s attention from our continuing operations. There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or entering into other significant transactions, we may experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. These costs may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, and severance and other closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or discontinued products, operations and facilities. Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. We are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws which may adversely affect our business. In the United States, most of our products are reimbursed under federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid, Medicare, TriCare, and/or state pharmaceutical assistance programs. Many foreign countries have similar laws. Federal and state laws designed to prevent fraud and abuse under these programs prohibit pharmaceutical companies from offering valuable items or services to customers or potential customers to induce them to buy, prescribe, or recommend Actavis’ product (the so-called “anti-kickback” laws). Exceptions are provided for discounts and certain other arrangements if specified requirements are met. Other federal and state laws, and similar foreign laws, not only prohibit us from submitting any false information to government reimbursement programs but also prohibit us and our employees from doing anything to cause, assist, or encourage our customers to submit false claims for payment to these programs. Violations of the fraud and abuse laws may result in severe penalties against the responsible employees and Actavis, including jail sentences, large 31 Table of Contents fines, and the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federal and state programs. We are committed to conducting the sales and marketing of our products in compliance with the healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but certain applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. For example, in December 2009, we learned that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including certain of our subsidiaries, have been named as defendants in a federal qui tam action pending in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts alleging that the defendants falsely reported to the United States that certain pharmaceutical products were eligible for Medicaid reimbursement and thereby allegedly caused false claims for payment to be made through the Medicaid program. A similar action was filed by the State of Louisiana in August 2013 and additional lawsuits are possible. Any adverse outcome in these actions, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing to comply with the fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of the statutes and regulations that govern our activities, such as federal and state anti-kickback and false claims laws, are broad in scope, and while exemptions and safe harbors protecting certain common activities exist, they are often narrowly drawn. Certain other requirements, such as those under the ACA’s “Sunshine Act” provisions, are new and their breadth and application are uncertain. While we manage our business activities to comply with these statutory provisions, due to their breadth, complexity and, in certain cases, uncertainty of application, it is possible that our activities could be subject to challenge by various government agencies. In particular, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice and other agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the sales, marketing, research and similar activities of pharmaceutical companies in recent years, and many pharmaceutical companies have been subject to government investigations related to these practices. Beginning in February 2012, Warner Chilcott, along with several then and former employees in its sales organization and certain third parties, received subpoenas from the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. The subpoena Warner Chilcott received sought information and documentation relating to a wide range of matters, including sales and marketing activities, payments to people who are in a position to recommend drugs, medical education, consultancies, prior authorization processes, clinical trials, off-label use and employee training (including with respect to laws and regulations concerning off-label information and physician remuneration), in each case relating to all of our current key products. We cannot predict or determine the impact of this inquiry on our future financial condition or results of operations. A determination that we are in violation of these and/or other government regulations and legal requirements may result in civil damages and penalties, criminal fines and prosecution, administrative remedies, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. The U.S. Attorney’s investigation and any other threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business. Any of these types of investigations or enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, our operating results will suffer. Our future results of operations depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner. There are numerous difficulties in developing and commercializing new products, including: • developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory standards in a timely manner; • receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner or at all; • the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including API and other key ingredients; 32 Table of Contents • developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of new products; • experiencing delays as a result of limited resources at the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • changing review and approval policies and standards at the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and • commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of potentially delaying approval of a generic product by up to 30 months. As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for marketing by us or other third-party partners. This risk particularly exists with respect to the development of proprietary products because of the uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames associated with R&D of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products. Additionally, we face heightened risks in connection with our development of extended release or controlled release generic products because of the technical difficulties and regulatory requirements related to such products. Additionally, with respect to generic products for which we are the first applicant to request approval on the basis that an innovator patent is invalid or not infringed (a paragraph IV filing), our ability to obtain 180 days of generic market exclusivity may be contingent on our ability to obtain FDA approval or tentative approval within 30 months of the FDA’s acceptance of our application for filing. We therefore risk forfeiting such market exclusivity if we are unable to obtain such approval or tentative approval on a timely basis. If any of our products or the products of our third-party partners are not approved timely or, when acquired or developed and approved, cannot be successfully manufactured or commercialized timely, our operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful in commercializing those products. If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved and sold, sales of our products will be adversely affected. As a result of our acquisition of Warner Chilcott, specialty branded products now comprise a larger percentage of our total revenues. Generic equivalents for branded pharmaceutical products are typically sold at lower costs than the branded products. After the introduction of a competing generic product, a significant percentage of the prescriptions previously written for the branded product are often written for the generic version. In addition, legislation enacted in most U.S. states and Canadian provinces allows or, in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispense an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded product, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician. As a result, branded products typically experience a significant loss in revenues following the introduction of a competing generic product. Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell, because our patent protection expires or because our patent protection is not sufficiently broad or enforceable. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to extend the proprietary protection afforded our branded products through the development and commercialization of proprietary product improvements and new and enhanced dosage forms. Our Actonel® products no longer have patent protection in Canada or the Western European countries in which we sell these products, and Asacol® is not protected by a patent in the United Kingdom. In addition, other products such as Estrace® Cream, Asacol® 400 mg and Femhrt® are not protected by patents in the United States where we sell these products. Generic equivalents are currently available in Canada and Western Europe for Actonel® and in the United States for certain versions of our Doryx® and Femhrt® products, Femcon® Fe and certain other less significant products. During the next few years, additional products of ours will lose patent protection or likely become subject to generic competition. Our Actonel® once-a-week product will lose U.S. patent protection in June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity); generic versions of our Loestrin® 24 Fe product entered the market in January 2014 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into; generic versions of our Asacol® HD 800 mg product may enter the market as early as November 2015 pursuant to an agreement 33 Table of Contents previously entered into; and generic versions of our Enablex® product may enter the market as early as March 2016 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into. Some of our products may also become subject to generic competition prior to the expiration of patent protection in the event a generic competitor elects to launch its generic equivalent product “at-risk.” Competition from generic equivalents could result in a material impairment of our intangible assets or the acceleration of amortization on our non-impaired intangible assets and may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our branded pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful products. Developing and commercializing branded pharmaceutical products is generally more costly than generic products. In the future, and particularly following the Warner Chilcott Acquisition, we anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for our Actavis Specialty Brands business segment, including products acquired from Warner Chilcott. In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development, and there is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and payer reimbursement, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. We currently have products in various stages of development. For example in 2013, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for our EsmyaTM product for treatment of uterine fibroids. We also have new hormonal contraceptive therapy products in various stages of development from preclinical development to Phase 3 development, as well as osteoporosis products in preclinical and clinical development and dermatology and infectious disease products in various stages of clinical development, among others. Such clinical trials are costly and may not result in successful outcomes. We cannot be sure that our business expenditures, including but not limited to our expenditures related to our EsmyaTM product, products recently acquired in the Warner Chilcott Acquisition or products of our third-party partners, among others, will result in the successful discovery, development or launch of brand products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of our business. If such business expenditures do not result in successful discovery, development or launch of commercially successful brand products our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our investments in biosimilar products may not result in products that are approved by the FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory authorities and, even if approved by such authorities, may not result in commercially successful products. In 2011, we entered into the Amgen Collaboration Agreement. Under the agreement, we will be required to invest up to $312.4 million in furtherance of the development and regulatory approval of such products. Although Amgen, our development partner, has substantial expertise and experience in the development of biological products, significant uncertainty remains concerning the regulatory pathway in the United States and in other countries to obtain regulatory approval of biosimilar products, and the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. In particular, although recently enacted legislation authorizes the FDA to establish a regulatory pathway for the review and approval of such products, only draft guidance has been issued by the FDA. Even if the FDA enacts rules and regulations concerning the development and approval of biosimilars, such regulations could include provisions that provide up to twelve or more years of data exclusivity for the original developer of the product on which a biosimilar product is based. Additionally, biosimilar products will likely be subject to extensive patent clearances and/or patent infringement litigation, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a product for many years. Further, our collaboration with Amgen may not result in products that meet the requirements established by the FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory 34 Table of Contents authorities. If our collaboration does result in biosimilar products that obtain FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory authority approval, such product(s) may not be commercially successful and/or may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. Market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to patients, physicians and payors that such products are safe and efficacious compared to other existing products yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. If our collaboration with Amgen does not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations, our operating results could suffer. We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other collaborations, including our collaboration agreements with Amgen and Sanofi, and may use these and other methods to develop or commercialize products in the future. These arrangements typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many instances, we will not control these joint ventures or collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be profitable. Any such marketing restrictions could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if these products are not timely developed, approved or successfully commercialized. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patents, our business could suffer. Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged. If our current and future patent applications are not approved or, if approved, our patents are not upheld in a court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to competitively utilize our patented products. Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market these products may be diminished. For example, patents covering our Androderm® and INFed® products have expired and we have no further patent protection on these products. Therefore, it is possible that a competitor may launch a generic version of Androderm® and/or INFed® at any time, which would result in a significant decline in that product’s revenue and profit. Both of these products were significant contributors to our Actavis Specialty Brands business in 2012. During the next five years, additional products acquired pursuant to the Warner Chilcott Acquisition will lose patent protection or likely become subject to generic competition. For example, our newly acquired Asacol® 400 mg product lost U.S. patent protection in July 2013, our Actonel® once-a-week product will lose U.S. patent protection in June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity), generic versions of our Loestrin® 24 Fe product entered the market in January 2014 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into; generic versions of our Asacol® HD 800 mg product may enter the market as early as November 2015 pursuant to an agreement previously entered into; and generic versions of our Enablex® product may enter the market as early as March 2016 pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into. Some of our products may also become subject to generic competition prior to the expiration of patent protection in the event a generic competitor elects to launch its generic equivalent product “at-risk.” For example, although our Doryx® patent does not expire until 2022, and Warner Chilcott and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against Mylan and Impax arising from their ANDA filings with respect to our Doryx® 75 mg, 100 mg and 150mg products, generic versions of such products have been launched following the FDA’s approval of their respective ANDAs. Generic competitors to our branded products may also challenge the validity or enforceability of the patents protecting our products or otherwise seek to circumvent them. For example, Warner Chilcott has received a challenge relating to its Generess® Fe oral contraceptive product. In October 2011, Warner Chilcott received 35 Table of Contents separate Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Famy Care Ltd. (collectively “Mylan”) and Lupin Ltd. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively “Lupin”), indicating that both Mylan and Lupin had submitted to the FDA ANDAs seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of Generess® Fe prior to the expiration of U.S. Patent No. 6,667,050. Warner Chilcott filed suit against Mylan and Lupin in November 2011 and December 2011, respectively. The cases against Mylan and Lupin have been consolidated, and the case is currently pending. Trial began on January 13, 2014 and the court has not yet issued a decision. Refer to Legal Matters in “NOTE 21 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. If pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative, regulatory and other efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer. Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included: • making changes to the formulation of the brand product and arguing that potential generic competitors must demonstrate bioequivalency or comparable abuse-resistance to the reformulated brand product; • pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the expiration of earlier patents, which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of generics; • selling the brand product as an Authorized Generic, either by the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a marketing partner; • using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards or otherwise delay generic drug approvals; • seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards; • attempting to use the legislative and regulatory process to have drugs reclassified or rescheduled; • using the legislative and regulatory process to set definitions of abuse deteriant formulations to protect brand company patents and profits; • attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation; • engaging in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that we are developing; • entering into agreements with pharmacy benefit management companies which have the effect of blocking the dispensing of generic products; and • seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API. If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we experience a material decline in generic product sales, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will suffer. If competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain generic products through their legislative, regulatory and litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may suffer. Certain of our competitors have challenged our ability to distribute Authorized Generics during the competitors’ 180-day period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and distribute under a brand manufacturer’s NDA a generic alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have challenged the propriety of these arrangements by 36 Table of Contents filing Citizen Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking legislative intervention. For example, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would prohibit the marketing of Authorized Generics during the 180-day period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If distribution of Authorized Generic versions of brand products is otherwise restricted or found unlawful, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. From time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend ourselves against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic products on which the patent covering the brand product is expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent, and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or market products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. For example, we are engaged in litigation with Momenta Pharmaceuticals concerning whether our distribution and sale of enoxaparin injection infringes Momenta’s U.S. Patent No. 7,575,886, and we continue to market enoxaparin. Further, in August 2012, Bayer Pharma AG (together with its affiliates, “Bayer”) filed a complaint against Warner Chilcott alleging that its manufacture, use, offer for sale, and/or sale of Lo Loestrin® Fe infringes Bayer’s U.S. Patent No. 5,980,940. In the complaint, Bayer seeks injunctive relief and unspecified monetary damages for the alleged infringement. In December 2012, Bayer amended the complaint to add a claim seeking to invalidate the Company’s U.S. Patent No. 7,704,984 (the “‘984 Patent”), which covers the Lo Loestrin® Fe product. Although the parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Refer to Legal Matters in “NOTE 21 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could result in substantial monetary damage awards and could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Anda Distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary courier service. Product deliveries within our Anda Distribution business are highly dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service. Our Anda Distribution business ships a substantial portion of products via one courier’s air and ground delivery service. If the courier terminates our contract or if we cannot renew the contract on favorable terms or enter into a contract with an equally reliable overnight courier to perform and offer the same service level at similar or more favorable rates, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Our Anda Distribution operations concentrate on generic products and therefore are subject to the risks of the generic industry. The ability of our Anda Distribution business to provide consistent, sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our participation in the launch of new products by generic manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of competition encountered by these products. This competition can result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a corresponding decrease in net sales of our Anda Distribution business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent to the generic industry, which is discussed below under “Risks Relating to Investing in the Pharmaceutical Industry”. Our Anda Distribution operations compete directly with significant customers of our generic and brand businesses. In our Anda Distribution business, our main competitors are McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These companies are significant customers of our Actavis Pharma and Actavis Specialty Brands operations, including the newly acquired Warner Chilcott products and collectively accounted for approximately 29% , 30% and 30% of our annual net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our activities related to our Anda Distribution business, as well as the acquisition of other businesses that compete with our customers, may result in the disruption of our business, which could harm relationships with our current customers, employees or suppliers, and could adversely affect our expenses, pricing, third-party relationships and revenues. Further, a loss of a significant customer of our Actavis Pharma or Actavis Specialty Brands operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key manufacturing sites or suppliers that in some cases may be the only source of finished products or raw materials, our ability to deliver our products to the market may be impeded. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw materials for our products in our applications with the FDA and other regulatory agencies. To the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in each drug application. However, some products and raw materials are available only from a single source and, in many of our drug applications, only one supplier of products and raw materials or site of manufacture has been identified, even in instances where multiple sources exist. Some of these products have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, such as INFed®, metoprolol succinate extended release tablets, methylphenidate hydrochloride extended release tablets, and a significant number of our oral contraceptive and controlled substance products. We expect to continue to rely on our third-party manufacturing partners, such as Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for methylphenidate ER, Mayne for Doryx®, Contract Pharmaceuticals Limited Canada (“CPL”) for Estrace® Cream and NPI for Actonel® and Atelvia®. GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”) currently manufactures our Asacol® 400 mg product sold in the United Kingdom. CPL, which manufactures our Estrace® Cream product, recently closed its manufacturing facility in Buffalo, New York and transferred its operations at that location to its facilities in Mississauga, Canada. Such transfers are subject to regulatory approvals, and the failure to obtain such approvals in a timely manner may delay production at the new facility and result in an interruption in our product supply. From time to time, certain of our manufacturing sites or outside suppliers have experienced regulatory or supply-related difficulties that have inhibited their ability to deliver products and raw materials to us, causing supply delays or interruptions. To the extent any difficulties experienced by our manufacturing sites or suppliers cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply agreements cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA or other regulatory agency, or if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts. Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our manufacturing sites outside of the United States and our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, political instability, 38 Table of Contents war, acts of terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and foreign regulatory body regulation, customs clearances, various import duties and other government clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to inclement weather, political instability, strikes or other matters outside of our control. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign patents. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods. Consistent with industry practice we, like many generic product manufacturers, have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time, we may give our customers credits on our generic products that our customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if new competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products, we may reduce the price of our product. As a result, we may be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the negotiated price that the wholesaler’s customer pays for that product. Although we establish reserves based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price of our stock. Investigations of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our business. Many government and third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed doctors, pharmacies and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug’s average wholesale price (“AWP”) or wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”). In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers’ reporting practices with respect to AWP and WAC, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP’s or WAC’s have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. For example, beginning in July 2002, we and certain of our subsidiaries, as well as numerous other pharmaceutical companies, were named as defendants in various state and federal court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices related to the reporting of AWP and/or WAC of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are possible. These actions, if successful, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. We regularly monitor the use of our products for trends or increases in reports of adverse events or product complaints, and regularly report such matters to the FDA. In some, but not all cases, an increase in adverse event reports may be an indication that there has been a change in a product’s specifications or efficacy. Such changes could lead to a recall of the product in question or, in some cases, increases in product liability claims related to the product in question. If the coverage limits for 39 Table of Contents product liability insurance policies are not adequate or if certain of our products are excluded from coverage, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of our key personnel could cause our business to suffer. The success of our present and future operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of key personnel. For example, although we have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or other senior executive officers without having or hiring a suitable successor, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with many of our senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee that our senior executive officers will remain employed by us for a significant period of time, or at all. We do not carry key-employee life insurance on any of our officers. Significant balances of intangible assets, including product rights and goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2013, the carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets was approximately $8,234.5 million and the carrying value of our goodwill was approximately $8,197.6 million. Upon consummation of the Actavis Group Acquisition, we recorded goodwill of approximately $2,868.8 million. We will also record goodwill following the Warner Chilcott Acquisition of $3,992.9 million. We also allocated approximately $2,268.0 million and $3,021.0 million of the total consideration paid in connection with the Actavis Group Acquisition and the Warner Chilcott Acquisition, respectively, to identified intangibles including currently marketed products (“CMP”) and approximately $272.9 million and $1,708.0 million, respectively, to in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangibles. Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization periods for product rights based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products. Such factors include the product’s position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the asset. For assets that are not impaired, the Company may adjust the remaining useful lives. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core technology and customer relationships, which are intangible assets with definite lives, our Anda trade name and acquired IPR&D intangible products, acquired in recent business acquisitions, which are intangible assets with indefinite lives. Our acquired core technology and customer relationship intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis, which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such factors include existing operating margins, the number of existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns, product market share analysis, product approval and launch dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates, consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any of these factors. If evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill, our Anda trade name intangible asset and our IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible 40 Table of Contents asset to its carrying amount. A goodwill, trade name or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2013 the Company recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $647.5 million. We may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses and potentially lowering our credit ratings. We may not be able to market such issuances on favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Our business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties or delays. The manufacture of certain of our products and product candidates, particularly our controlled-release products, transdermal products, injectable products, and our oral contraceptive products, is more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that operates consistently within narrow performance ranges. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events such as earthquake, monsoon, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements thereof, as well as construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. Our inability to timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental liabilities. Our product and API development programs, manufacturing processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our owned and leased facilities. As a result, we are subject to numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities. Any modification, revocation or non-renewal of our environmental permits could have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations, business and financial condition. Our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. 41 Table of Contents Global economic conditions could harm us. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies during recent years. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global real estate markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have resulted in a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Our foreign operations may become less attractive if political and diplomatic relations between the United States and any country where we conduct business operations deteriorates. The relationship between the United States and the foreign countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over time. Changes in the state of the relations between any such country and the United States are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of the political and diplomatic relations between the United States and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our global operations, particularly following the Actavis Group and Warner Chilcott Acquisitions, expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally. We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in Europe, Iceland, Africa, Asia, South America, Australia and North America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other U.S. federal laws and regulations established by the office of Foreign Asset Control, local laws such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 or other local laws which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached by us, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements, or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these challenges. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. 42 Table of Contents In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters (including sanctions); • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws • challenges in collecting accounts receivable from customers in the jurisdictions in which we operate; • complying with laws, rules and regulations relating to the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products in the jurisdictions in which we do or will operate; • operating under regulations in jurisdictions related to obtaining eligibility for government or private payor reimbursement for our products at the wholesale/retail level; • Competition from local, regional and international competitors; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural and language differences and additional employment regulations, union workforce negotiations and potential disputes in the jurisdictions in which we operate; • difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These factors or any combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have exposure to tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Proposals by the current U.S. administration for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, including without limitation provisions that would limit the ability of U.S. multinationals to defer U.S. taxes on foreign income, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate following the Actavis Group and Warner Chilcott acquisitions. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. We do business and generate sales in numerous countries outside the United States. As such, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. Some of our operating expenses are incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar could increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction, integration and restructuring costs in connection with recent transactions, including the Actavis Group and Warner Chilcott acquisitions. We have incurred significant transaction costs related to the Actavis Group and Warner Chilcott acquisitions and will continue to incur significant transaction costs related to the Warner Chilcott Acquisition. In addition, we will incur integration costs and restructuring costs as we integrate the businesses. Although we expect that the realization of benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset these transaction 43 Table of Contents costs, integration costs and restructuring costs over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. The failure to realize the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Substantial amounts of our information concerning our products, customers, employees and ongoing business are stored digitally and are subject to threats of theft, tampering, or other intrusion. We collect and maintain information in digital form that is necessary to conduct our business. This digital information includes, but is not limited to, confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. We have established physical, electronic, and organizational measures to safeguard and secure our systems to prevent a data compromise, and rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of digital information. However, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become increasingly more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of a future data compromise cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with intrusion, tampering, and theft remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue our business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems are compromised, our business operations may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished, and we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured resulting in loss of business and/or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or be required to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of such incidents. A failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business or share price. The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. See Part II, “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” for our conclusion on the effectiveness on internal controls over financial reporting. Risks Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities. All pharmaceutical companies, including Actavis plc, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving government regulation. For the U.S., this is principally administered by the FDA and to a lesser extent by the DEA and state government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies in foreign countries where products or product candidates are being manufactured and/or marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations, and similar foreign statutes and regulations, govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. 44 Table of Contents Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA and similar ex-U.S. authorities, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. In addition, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies conduct pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance with cGMP and other regulations. Following such inspections, the FDA or other agency may issue observations, notices, citations and/or Warning Letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. FDA guidelines specify that a Warning Letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns would result in product liability claims, labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions. Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California is currently subject to a consent decree of permanent injunction. We cannot assure that the FDA will determine we have adequately corrected deficiencies at our Corona manufacturing site, that subsequent FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not result in additional inspectional observations at such sites, that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications by Actavis plc or our subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to impose additional sanctions against Actavis plc or any of its subsidiaries. The range of possible sanctions includes, among others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate, timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we may be required to write-off the related inventory. Our Anda Distribution operations and our customers are subject to various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. The DEA requires our Anda Distribution business to monitor customer orders of DEA Scheduled Drugs and to report suspicious orders to the DEA. Any determination by the DEA that we have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in DEA suspending, terminating or refusing to renew Anda Distribution’s license to distribute Scheduled Drugs. Additionally, although physicians may prescribe FDA approved products for an “off label” indication, we are permitted to market our products only for the indications for which they have been approved. Some of our products are prescribed off label and the FDA, the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney or other regulatory authorities could take enforcement actions if they conclude that we or our distributors have engaged in off label marketing. In addition, several states and the federal government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products. For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and distributors, 45 Table of Contents including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals, are required to maintain records documenting the chain of custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning with the purchase of products from the manufacturer. These entities are required to provide documentation of the prior transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal law requires that a “non-authorized distributor of record” must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an “authorized distributor of record”. In cases where the wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed an “authorized distributor of record” it would need to maintain such records. The FDA had announced its intent to impose additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot numbers and documentation of all transactions) through implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these wholesale distributors. The supply of APIs into Europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the European Union. As of July 2, 2013, all API’s imported into the EU must be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice (“GMP”) standards established by the EU, as stipulated by the International Conference for Harmonization (“ICH Q7”). These new regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. Accordingly, as of July 2, 2013, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must: (i) insure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export API into the EU comply with EU manufacturing standards and; (ii) for each API exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to EU manufacturing standards. The imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting API may cause a shortage of API necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. A shortage in API may cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those API manufacturers unable to export. This could adversely affect the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Federal regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and generic products could adversely affect our business. As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand drugs. This requirement, as well as new legislation pending in the U.S. Congress related to settlements between brand and generic drug manufacturers, could affect the manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies and could result generally in an increase in private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, the pending legislation and the potential private-party lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect our business. For example, on April 5, 2013, two putative class actions were filed against Actavis, Inc. and certain affiliates alleging that Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s 2009 patent lawsuit settlement with Warner Chilcott related to Loestrin® 24 Fe (norethindrone acetate/ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets, “Loestrin® 24”) is unlawful. The complaints, both asserted on behalf of putative classes of end-payors, generally allege that Watson and another generic manufacturer improperly delayed launching generic versions of Loestrin® 24 in exchange for substantial payments from Warner Chilcott, which at the time was an unrelated company, in violation of federal and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. Further, in January 2009, the FTC and the State of California filed a lawsuit against us alleging that our settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version of Androgel® is unlawful. Numerous private parties purporting to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed similar lawsuits. Similar lawsuits have been filed against us challenging the lawfulness of our settlements related to generic versions of Actos®, Androgel®, Cipro®, and Lidoderm®. We have also received requests for information and Statements of Objection in connection with investigations into settlements and other arrangements 46 Table of Contents between competing pharmaceutical companies by the European Competition Commission. In the past, we have also received requests for information and Statements of Objection in connection with investigations into settlements and other arrangements between competing pharmaceutical companies by the European Competition Commission. Any adverse outcome of these actions or investigations, or actions or investigations related to other settlements we have entered into, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Refer to Legal Matters in “NOTE 21 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report. Healthcare reform and a reduction in the coverage and reimbursement levels by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payers may adversely affect our business. Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is available from third-party payers, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors. In order to commercialize our products, we have obtained from government authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, recognition for coverage and reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain of our products and related treatments. Third-party payers increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. Further, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs create uncertainties regarding the future levels of coverage and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reform could reduce reimbursement of our pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in the product demand. This could affect our ability to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There is uncertainty surrounding implementation of legislation involving payments for pharmaceuticals under government programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare. Depending on how existing provisions are implemented, the methodology for certain payment rates and other computations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program reimbursements may be reduced or not be available for some of our products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce demand for, or negatively affect the price of those products. Ongoing uncertainty and challenges to the ACA, including but not limited to, modification in calculation of rebates, mandated financial or other contributions to close the Medicare Part D coverage gap “donut hole,” calculation of AMP, and other provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, various legislative and regulatory initiatives in states, including proposed modifications to reimbursements and rebates, product pedigree and tracking, pharmaceutical waste “take-back” initiatives, and therapeutic category generic substitution carve-out legislation may also have a negative impact on the Company. We maintain a full-time government affairs department in Washington, DC, which is responsible for coordinating state and federal legislative activities, and places a major emphasis in terms of management time and resources to ensure a fair and balanced legislative and regulatory arena. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent on our timely development and launches of new products ahead of our competitors. We face strong competition in our all of our businesses. The intensely competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively, including the ability to communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of brand products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group practices and MCOs. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug-delivery systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and international competitors in the brand and distribution product arenas. Most of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating financial, technical and market strength and increasing competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete with them for the same markets and/or 47 Table of Contents products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve significant market penetration. Therefore, our ability to increase or maintain revenues and profitability in our generics business is largely dependent on our success in challenging patents and developing non-infringing formulations of proprietary products. As competing manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such products (for which no separate regulatory approval is required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is related to the number of competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross margins. We may have fewer opportunities to launch significant generic products in the future, as the number and size of proprietary products that are subject to patent challenges is expected to decrease in the next several years compared to historical levels. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market, there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products, which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas generic competitors, who may be able to produce products at costs lower than the costs of domestic manufacturers. If we experience substantial competition from Asian or other overseas generic competitors with lower production costs, our profit margins will suffer. We also face strong competition in our Anda Distribution business, where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their customers. These companies are significant customers of our Actavis Specialty Brands and Actavis Pharma businesses. As generic products generally have higher gross margins for distributors, each of the large wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the primary wholesaler. As Anda does not offer a full line of brand products to our customers, we have been at times competitively disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater service levels and our well-established telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have historically not used telemarketers to sell to their customers, but recently have begun to do so. Additionally, generic manufacturers are increasingly marketing their products directly to smaller chains and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and distributors. Increased competition in the generic industry as a whole may result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of market share. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base. Our principal customers in our brand and generic pharmaceutical operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including the Company. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us, and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so. 48 Table of Contents Additional Risks Related to the Warner Chilcott Acquisition and Re-domiciliation of Actavis to Ireland We incurred direct and indirect costs as a result of the Warner Chilcott Acquisition. We incurred costs and expenses in connection with, and as a result of, the Warner Chilcott Acquisition. These costs and expenses included professional fees to comply with Irish corporate and tax laws and financial reporting requirements, costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding a majority of the meetings of the board of directors and certain executive management meetings in Ireland, as well as any additional costs we may incur going forward as a result of our new corporate structure. These costs may exceed the costs historically borne by Actavis, Inc. and Warner Chilcott. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may not agree with our conclusion to treat Actavis plc as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes following the Warner Chilcott Acquisition. Although we are incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874. For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because we are an Irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. For us to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under section 7874, either (i) the former stockholders of Actavis, Inc. must own (within the meaning of section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our ordinary shares by reason of holding shares in Actavis, Inc., which is referred to in this report as the “ownership test,” or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in Ireland (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). Immediately following the transaction with Warner Chilcott, the former Actavis, Inc. stockholders owned less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our shares after the transaction by reason of their ownership of shares of Actavis, Inc. As a result, under current law, we believe we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. We cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied, however. Section 7874 likely will limit Actavis, Inc.’s and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by the Warner Chilcott Acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the transaction. Following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that following the transaction, this limitation will apply and as a result, Actavis currently does not expect that it or its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain specified taxable transactions. Future changes to the international tax laws could adversely affect us. Under current law, we expect to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in Section 7874 or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to us, Actavis, Inc., our respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates, and/or the transaction with Warner Chilcott. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on us. Moreover, the U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other Government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is where payments are made between 49 Table of Contents affiliates within a multinational corporation. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us. We will seek Irish High Court approval of the creation of distributable reserves. We expect this will be forthcoming but cannot guarantee this. Under Irish law, dividends may only be paid and share repurchases and redemptions must generally be funded only out of “distributable reserves,” which we do not have immediately following the closing of our acquisition of Warner Chilcott. The creation of distributable reserves requires the approval of the Irish High Court and, in connection with seeking such court approval, the approval of the former Actavis, Inc. stockholders and Warner Chilcott shareholders has been obtained. The approval of the Irish High Court is expected in the second quarter of 2014. We are not aware of any reason why the Irish High Court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves; however, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the Irish High Court. In the event that distributable reserves are not created, no distributions by way of dividends, share repurchases or otherwise will be permitted under Irish law until such time as the group has created sufficient distributable reserves from its trading activities. As a result of different shareholder voting requirements in Ireland relative to laws in effect in certain states in the United States, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management than companies organized in the United States. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. Accordingly, our articles of association contain, as permitted by Irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. The authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts (the “Companies Act”). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. For example, under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. As a result, shareholders of Irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. In addition, depending on the circumstances, you may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of your acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of our ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax. We are an Irish company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Ireland and a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. In addition, some of our officers and directors reside outside the United States, and some or all of 50 Table of Contents their respective assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process against us or such officers or directors or to enforce against us or them judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland: • the judgment must be for a definite sum; • the judgment must be final and conclusive; and • the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. Further, an Irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Judgments of U.S. courts of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforced by Irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in Ireland. A transfer of Company Ordinary Shares, other than by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (“DTC”), may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of Company Ordinary Shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if you hold your Company Ordinary Shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of your Company Ordinary Shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of your shares. In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. While we do not currently contemplate paying dividends upon our ordinary shares, in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends, if any, paid on our ordinary shares. A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and shareholders resident in certain countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). Similarly, shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares outside of DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax if, in the case of former Actavis, Inc. shareholders, they provide a IRS Form 6166 to our transfer agent to confirm their U.S. residence and claim an exemption, or, in the case of former Warner Chilcott shareholders, such shareholders previously filed valid dividend withholding tax forms with Warner Chilcott or its transfer agent in respect of their Warner Chilcott shareholdings. All new U.S. resident shareholders in Actavis plc that hold their shares outside of DTC and shareholders resident in certain other countries (irrespective of whether they hold their shares through DTC or outside DTC) will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the beneficial owners of such shares have furnished completed and valid dividend withholding tax forms or an IRS Form 6166, as appropriate, to our transfer agent or their brokers (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to our transfer agent). However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of your shares. Dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends, unless they have some connection with 51 Table of Contents Ireland other than their shareholding in us (for example, they are resident in Ireland). Shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland but who are not entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends which suffer dividend withholding tax. Company Ordinary Shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax. Irish capital acquisitions tax (“CAT”) could apply to a gift or inheritance of Company Ordinary Shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because Company Ordinary Shares are regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children have a tax-free threshold of €225,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 