ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSSet forth below are certain risk factors related to our business, our partnership structure and tax matters. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of these and various other factors, including those set forth in our other periodic and current reports filed with the SEC from time to time. If any risks or uncertainties develop into an actual event, our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described in this report are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.17Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our BusinessWe may not have sufficient cash available for distribution to pay any quarterly distribution on our common units.We may not have sufficient cash available for distribution each quarter to enable us to pay any distributions to our common unitholders. The amount of cash we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which is directly dependent upon the operating margins we generate. Our profit margins are significantly affected by the level of our cost of goods sold (exclusive of depreciation), including the cost of natural gas, our primary feedstock, as well as the costs of hydrogen and nitrogen and other costs, the market-driven prices for methanol and ammonia we are able to charge our customers, seasonality, weather conditions, governmental regulation and global and domestic economic conditions and demand for methanol and ammonia, among other factors. In addition, our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions are affected by:•planned and unplanned maintenance at our facility, which may result in downtime and thus negatively impact our cash flows in the quarter in which such maintenance occurs;•the level of our capital expenditures;•our debt service requirements;•the level of our expenses that are incurred by our general partner and its affiliates on our behalf and reimbursed by us;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•our ability to access capital markets;•fluctuations in interest rates;•the level of competition in our market and industry;•restrictions on distributions and on our ability to make working capital borrowings; and•the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner, including for turnarounds and related expenses.Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay a minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of distributions that we pay, if any, and the decision to pay any distribution at all, will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner. Our quarterly distributions, if any, will be subject to significant fluctuations based on the above-listed factors.The amount of our quarterly cash distributions, if any, will vary significantly both quarterly and annually and will be directly dependent on the performance of our business. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to maintain or increase quarterly cash distributions over time.Investors who are looking for an investment that will pay regular and predictable quarterly distributions should not invest in our common units. We expect our business performance will be more volatile, and our cash flows will be less stable, than the business performance and cash flows of most publicly traded partnerships. As a result, the amount of our quarterly cash distributions, if any, will be volatile and are expected to vary quarterly and annually. For example, we did not pay any quarterly cash distributions with respect to the quarters ended March 31, 2015 or June 30, 2015. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to maintain or increase quarterly cash distributions over time. The amount of our quarterly cash distributions will be directly dependent on the performance of our business, which is subject to volatility. Methanol prices have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, characterized by significant cyclicality. Additionally, ammonia and natural gas prices are volatile, and seasonal and global fluctuations in demand for nitrogen fertilizer products and other ammonia-based products could affect our revenues. Because our quarterly cash distributions will be subject to significant fluctuations directly related to the cash we generate after payment of our fixed and variable expenses and other cash reserves established by our general partner, future quarterly cash distributions paid to our unitholders will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be zero. Given the volatile nature of our business, we expect that our unitholders will have direct exposure to fluctuations in the price of methanol and ammonia and the cost of natural gas.18Table of ContentsThe amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability.You should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which may be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Expenditures.” As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we report losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report net income.The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all.Under our current cash distribution policy, we intend to distribute 100% of the cash available for distribution that we generate each quarter to unitholders of record on a pro rata basis. However, the board of directors may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. For example, we did not pay any quarterly cash distributions with respect to the quarters ended March 31, 2015 or June 30, 2015.Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making a decision to invest in our common units. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our general partner has limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of OCI to the detriment of our common unitholders.Our facility faces operating hazards and interruptions, including unscheduled maintenance or downtime. We could face significant reductions in revenues and increases in expenses to the extent these hazards or interruptions cause a material decline in production and are not fully covered by our existing insurance coverage. Insurance companies that currently insure companies in our industry may cease to do so, may change the coverage provided or may substantially increase premiums in the future.Our operations, located at a single location, are subject to significant operating hazards and interruptions. Any significant curtailing of production at our facility or individual units within our facility could result in materially lower levels of revenues and cash flow and materially increased expenses for the duration of any downtime and materially adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Operations at our facility could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are not within our control, such as:•unscheduled maintenance or catastrophic events such as a major accident, fire, damage by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster;•labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown;•environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel the cessation of all or a portion of the operations at our facility;•increasingly stringent environmental regulations;•a disruption in the supply of natural gas to our facility; and•governmental limitations on the use of our products, either generally or specifically those manufactured at our plant.For example, during July and August 2013, we experienced 13 days of unplanned downtime as we took our methanol unit offline to repair our syngas machine, including replacing a rotor and installing new bearings. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our methanol and ammonia production units were shut down for 45 days and 28 days, respectively, due to a period of unplanned downtime early in the first quarter of 2014, as a result of an electrical power outage and in the third quarter of 2014, as a result of electrical power outages and repairs to our reformer. During the year ended December 31, 2015, our methanol and ammonia production units were shut down for 93 days and 96 days, respectively, partially due to taking our 19Table of Contentsammonia and methanol production units offline for 71 days and 82 days, respectively, in order to complete the debottlenecking project. In addition, we experienced unplanned downtime after the completion of the debottlenecking project due to an internal failure of the steam turbine. The repairs were covered under warranty. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Operational Factors—Facility Reliability.”The magnitude of the effect on us of any downtime will depend on the length of the downtime and the extent our operations are affected by the downtime. We expect to perform maintenance turnarounds approximately every four years, which will typically last approximately four weeks and cost approximately $24 million per turnaround. Such turnarounds may have a material impact on our cash flows and ability to make cash distributions in the quarter or quarters in which they occur. We executed a turnaround as part of our debottlenecking project which was completed in April 2015. We expect that the next turnaround will occur in 2018. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance or downtime could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions during the period of time that either of our units is not operating. During downtime, we will be required to fulfill certain of our customer contracts with product purchased from third parties at spot prices, and we may incur losses in connection with those sales. In addition, a major accident, fire, flood or other event could damage our facility or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life.For example, in the quarter(s) preceding our planned downtime for major turnarounds, the board of directors of our general partner may elect to reserve amounts to fund (i) the capital costs associated with our major turnarounds, (ii) all or a portion of the revenues projected to be forgone as a result of the loss of production during the downtime associated with a turnaround or (iii) both. Based upon the decision(s) made by the board of directors of our general partner, the cash available for distribution in the quarter(s) preceding such a planned maintenance event in which the reserves are withheld may be adversely impacted. Conversely, additional amounts may be required to be reserved from cash available for distribution generated in a quarter subsequent to such a planned maintenance event should the scope or cost of the actual work performed during such period be materially different than that planned.If we experience significant property damage, business interruption, environmental claims or other liabilities, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent the damages or claims exceed the amount of valid and collectible insurance available to us. We are currently insured under casualty, environmental, property and business interruption insurance policies. These policies contain exclusions and conditions that could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to receive indemnification thereunder, as well as customary sub-limits for particular types of losses.We are not fully insured against all risks related to our business and, if an accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could materially adversely affect our business.A major accident, fire, flood or other event could damage our facility or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life. If we experience significant property damage, business interruption, environmental claims or other liabilities, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent the damages or claims exceed the amount of valid and collectible insurance available to us. We are currently insured under casualty, environmental, property and business interruption insurance policies. The property and business interruption insurance policies have a combined loss limit of $1.1 billion which is placed in two layers. The primary layer has a $601.4 million loss limit, with a $668,200 deductible for physical damage. The excess layer of the property and business interruption insurance policy has a $467.7 million loss limit for damage caused by fire, lightning, explosion or aircraft. Business interruption losses under the primary layer are subject to an annual aggregate deductible of $23.4 million that is applied to the business interruption deductible or an annual time aggregate of 30 working days. Once the annual aggregate is exhausted, the fall back deductible of $3.1 million is applied per occurrence.Our primary property policy provides coverage on an all risk basis and contains a number of sub-limits, such as a sub-limit of $133.6 million for losses due to business interruptions caused by machinery breakdown and a sub-limit of $64.8 million for damage caused by a named windstorm. In addition, our current named windstorm policy contains an additional limit of $110.0 million for damage caused by named windstorms to be triggered once the $64.8 million primary property policy is consumed, which increases our coverage up to $174.8 million for damage caused by a named windstorm. We are fully exposed to all losses in excess of the applicable limits and sub-limits and for losses due to business interruptions caused by machinery breakdown of fewer than 30 days and less than $23.4 million plus the fall back deductible of $3.1 million per occurrence. With regard to environmental claims due to pollution, we currently have a policy limit of $25.0 million, and this policy has a deductible of $250,000. Our current construction floater policy contains a specific limit of $20.0 million for losses incurred during the construction of any equipment or facilities at our site. As we continue to grow, we will continue to evaluate our policy limits and risk retentions as they relate to the overall cost and scope of our insurance program.20Table of ContentsNone of our contracts provide for a minimum commitment from our customers. The prices we receive for our products are determined by reference to pricing indices and thus could be subject to significant variations.None of our contracts provide for a minimum commitment from our customers. Although our contracts set pricing terms, they generally do not obligate the counterparty to purchase a specified minimum volume of methanol or ammonia from us. As such, many of our customers could source their methanol or ammonia supply elsewhere and cease buying our products at any time and for any reason, and we will have no recourse in the event such customer decides not to purchase our products. If customers representing a significant amount of our revenues elect not to purchase the methanol and ammonia we produce, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Methanol and ammonia are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and availability of the product. As a result, the prevailing market sales prices for methanol and ammonia are subject to volatile, cyclical and seasonal changes in respect to relatively small changes in demand. Since none of our contracts provide for a minimum commitment from our customers and the prices at which we sell our products are determined by reference to specific pricing indices that change in response to changes in prevailing market conditions, the revenue we receive for the sales of our products will be subject to significant variations from period to period in response to changes in prevailing market prices for methanol and ammonia, which variations will result in changes in our cash available for distribution and distributions per common unit.The methanol industry is subject to commodity price volatility and supply and demand uncertainty, which could potentially affect our operating and financial results, and expose our unitholders to substantial volatility in our quarterly cash distributions and material reductions in the trading price of our common units.The methanol industry has historically been characterized by cycles of oversupply caused by either excess supply or reduced demand, resulting in lower prices and idling of capacity, followed by periods of shortage and rising prices as demand exceeds supply until increased prices lead to new plant investment or the restart of idled capacity. The methanol industry has historically operated significantly below stated capacity on a consistent basis, even in periods of high methanol prices, due primarily to shutdowns for planned and unplanned repairs and maintenance, temporary closures of marginal production facilities, as well as shortages of feedstock and other production inputs.The methanol business is a highly competitive commodity industry, and prices are affected by supply and demand fundamentals and global energy prices. Methanol prices have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, characterized by significant cyclicality. New methanol plants are expected to be built in the United States, and this will increase overall production capacity. For example, Methanex and the Celanese-Mitsui joint venture have recently brought their new facilities online. In addition, Big Lake Fuels, S. Louisiana Methanol, Yuhuang Chemical, and OCI have each announced plans to relocate, restart or construct methanol plants in the U.S. Gulf Coast region over the next few years, which will increase overall U.S. production capacity and the availability of methanol supply to our customers from competing sources. Additional methanol supply can also become available in the future by restarting idle methanol plants, carrying out major expansions of existing plants or debottlenecking existing plants to increase their production capacity. Historically, higher-cost plants have been shut down or idled when methanol prices are low, but there can be no assurance that this practice will occur in the future or that such plants will remain idle. Relatively low prices for natural gas have led to reduced idling at the current time.Demand for methanol largely depends upon levels of global industrial production, changes in general economic conditions and energy prices. We are not able to predict future methanol supply and demand balances, market conditions, global economic activity, methanol prices or energy prices, all of which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Since methanol constitutes a significant portion of the products we produce and market, a decline in the price of methanol would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could result in significant volatility or material reductions in the price of our common units or an inability to make quarterly cash distributions on our common units.The ammonia business is, and ammonia prices are, cyclical and highly volatile and have experienced substantial downturns. Cycles in demand and seasonal fluctuations in pricing could potentially affect our operating and financial results, and expose our unitholders to substantial volatility in our quarterly cash distributions and material reductions in the trading price of our common units.Ammonia is a commodity, and demand for and prices of ammonia can be highly volatile. In particular, our ammonia business is exposed to fluctuations in the demand for nitrogen fertilizer from the agricultural industry. These fluctuations historically have had and could in the future have significant effects on prices across all ammonia-based products and, in turn, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could result in significant volatility or material reductions in the price of our common units or an inability to make quarterly cash distributions on our common units.21Table of ContentsThe ammonia industry is generally seasonal. Farmers tend to apply nitrogen fertilizer during two short application periods, one in the spring and the other in the fall. The strongest demand for nitrogen fertilizers typically occurs during the planting season. In contrast, we and other ammonia producers generally produce our products throughout the year. As a result, ammonia producers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. The seasonality of nitrogen fertilizer demand results in ammonia producers’ sales volumes being highest during the North American spring season and their working capital requirements typically being highest just prior to the start of the spring season. The degree of seasonality of the ammonia industry can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. As a consequence of this seasonality, we expect that our distributions will be volatile and will vary quarterly and annually.If seasonal demand exceeds the projections on which we base our production, we will not have enough product and our customers may acquire ammonia from our competitors, which will negatively impact our profitability. If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements associated with the liquidation or storage of such inventory. Additionally, because our inventory storage capacity is not significant, during periods of peak demand we may be required to acquire ammonia at spot prices in order to fulfill our supply obligations to customers. The prices at which we purchase ammonia for sale to our customers may negatively impact our profitability.The pricing and demand for nitrogen fertilizer products is also dependent on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry. The agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. The most important of these factors, for U.S. markets, are:•weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high nitrogen fertilizer consumption);•quantities of nitrogen fertilizers imported to and exported from North America;•current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by U.S. exports and world-wide grain markets; and•U.S. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices.International market conditions may also significantly influence our operating results. The international market for nitrogen fertilizers is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the U.S. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing nitrogen fertilizers, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and investment.Since ammonia constitutes a significant portion of the products we produce and market, a decline in the price of or demand for nitrogen fertilizers would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and ability to make distributions.Methanol and ammonia are global commodities, and we face intense competition from other producers.Our business is subject to intense price competition from both U.S. and foreign sources, including competitors operating in Trinidad with respect to methanol and in the Persian Gulf, the Asia-Pacific region, the Caribbean, Russia and the Ukraine with respect to ammonia. Both methanol and ammonia are global commodities, with little product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and availability of the product. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Most significantly, producers in Trinidad have historically been the largest suppliers of methanol to the United States. These companies have significant experience and expertise in production, transportation, marketing and sales of methanol in the United States. Some competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from methanol or ammonia sales, which makes them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. For example, Methanex and the Celanese-Mitsui joint venture have recently brought their new facilities online. In addition, Big Lake Fuels, S. Louisiana Methanol, Yuhuang Chemical, and OCI have each announced plans to relocate, restart or construct methanol plants in the U.S. Gulf Coast region over the next few years, which would compete directly with our facility. If we are unable to provide customers with a reliable supply of methanol or ammonia at competitive prices, we may lose market share to our competitors, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.22Table of ContentsOur profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost of natural gas, our primary feedstock.Our profitability is significantly dependent on the cost of our natural gas feedstock, and a significant increase in the price of natural gas would adversely affect our ability to operate our facility on a profitable basis. In recent history, the price of natural gas has been very volatile, with prices at the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) pricing point, Henry Hub, spiking to near-record high prices in 2008 and approaching ten-year lows at the beginning of 2015. This is due to various supply and demand factors, including the increasing overall demand for natural gas from industrial users, which is affected, in part, by the general conditions of the U.S. and global economies, and other factors. We currently procure our natural gas through three main suppliers, Kinder Morgan, DCP Midstream and Houston Pipe Line Company, through supply agreements that are based on spot pricing, making us susceptible to fluctuations in the price of natural gas. In addition, our facility is connected to a natural gas pipeline owned by Florida Gas Transmission. Operating at full capacity, our methanol and ammonia production units together require approximately 110,000 to 120,000 MMBtu per day of natural gas, as of December 31, 2015. A hypothetical increase or decrease of $1.00 per MMBtu of natural gas would increase or decrease our annual cost of goods sold (exclusive of depreciation) by approximately $40.2 million to $43.8 million. A material increase in natural gas prices could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our facility operates under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals, and failure to comply with or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability.Our facility operates under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approvals and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval or standard. Incomplete documentation of compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. Additionally, due to the nature of our manufacturing processes, there may be times when we are unable to meet the standards and terms and conditions of these permits and licenses due to operational upsets or malfunctions, which may lead to violations or enforcement from regulatory agencies that could potentially result in operating restrictions. This could have a direct material adverse effect on our ability to operate our facilities and, accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.During 2015, we executed a debottlenecking project that increased the output from our methanol and ammonia production units. Any other expansion of our operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals, including necessary amendments to current permits to account for increased output. However, a decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations.Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.In order to optimize our existing asset base, we intend to evaluate and capitalize on organic opportunities for expansion projects in order to increase revenue. The expansion of production capacity (such as our debottlenecking project), or the construction of new assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. These risks include:•changes to plans and specifications;•engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications;•shortages of, and price increases in, raw materials and skilled and unskilled labor;•inflation in key supply markets;•changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretations and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to construction projects;•poor workmanship, labor disputes or work stoppages;•failure by subcontractors to comply with applicable laws and regulations;•injuries sustained by workers or patrons on the job site;23Table of Contents•disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors;•claims asserted against us for construction defects, personal injury or property damage;•environmental issues;•health and safety incidents and site accidents;•weather interferences or delays;•fires and other natural disasters; and•other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.If we undertake any expansion projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. If the actual cost to complete budgeted capital projects is greater than the budgeted cost, we would be required to use our cash flow from operations or seek additional sources of financing to complete those projects. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations, or additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Using cash flow from operations or incurring debt to fund our expansion projects (and paying the interest related to such incremental debt) could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions. If our expansion projects take longer than their contemplated schedules, then our facility could experience prolonged downtime, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Future demand for methanol for MTBE production may be adversely affected by regulatory developments.Changes in environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements could impact methanol demand for the production of MTBE. Several years ago, environmental concerns and legislative action related to gasoline leaking into water supplies from underground gasoline storage tanks in the United States resulted in the phase-out of MTBE as a gasoline additive in the United States. However, methanol is used in the United States to produce MTBE for export markets, where demand for MTBE has continued at strong levels. Demand for methanol for use in MTBE production in the United States could decline materially if export demand is impacted by governmental legislation or policy changes. The EPA is currently reviewing the human health effects of MTBE, including its potential carcinogenicity. The European Union issued a final risk assessment report on MTBE in 2002 that permitted the continued use of MTBE, although several risk reduction measures relating to the storage and handling of fuels were recommended. Governmental efforts in recent years in some countries, primarily in the European Union and Latin America, to promote biofuels and alternative fuels through legislation or tax policy are also putting competitive pressures on the use of MTBE in gasoline in these countries. Declines in demand for methanol for use in MTBE production could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Future demand for methanol may be adversely affected by regulatory developments.Some of our customers use methanol that we supply to manufacture formaldehyde, among other chemicals. Formaldehyde currently represents the largest single demand use for methanol in the United States. Formaldehyde, a component of resins used as wood adhesives and as a raw material for engineered plastics and a variety of other products, including elastomers, paints, building products, foams, polyurethane and automotive products, has been classified as a known human carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer and as a probable human carcinogen by the EPA. On July 7, 2010, President Obama signed the Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products Act into law, which establishes limits for formaldehyde emissions from composite wood products and requires EPA to evaluate and establish limits for other types of wood products. EPA has proposed two regulations to implement this Act: (1) formaldehyde emissions standards for hardwood plywood, medium-density fiberboard, particleboard, and finished goods containing these products that are sold, supplied, offered for sale, or manufactured (including imported) in the United States and (2) a third-party certification program to assure compliance by composite wood panel producers with the formaldehyde emissions limits established directly in the Act. EPA continues to state publicly that it plans to finalize these regulations, but has not yet done so. As of April 1, 2015, formaldehyde will be reclassified in the European Union as a category 1B carcinogen. No decision has yet been made, however, whether this reclassification will result in obligations or restrictions under the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restrictions of Chemicals in the European Union, including in particular whether formaldehyde should be designated as a Substance of Very High Concern Candidate. Changes in environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements relating to formaldehyde could impact methanol demand, which could indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business.24Table of ContentsAny limitations on the use of nitrogen fertilizer for agricultural purposes could have a material adverse effect on the market for ammonia and on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry may significantly impact our operating results. State and federal governmental regulations and policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of ammonia for particular agricultural applications. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, which is the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for nitrogen fertilizer and thus affect general demand for and pricing of ammonia. Unfavorable industry conditions and new technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.In addition, future federal or state environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could limit our ability to market and sell our products to end users. From time to time, various state legislatures have considered limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. In addition, a number of states have adopted or proposed numeric nutrient water quality criteria that could result in decreased demand for fertilizer products in those states, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.A major factor underlying the level of demand for nitrogen-based fertilizer products is the expanding production of ethanol. A decrease in ethanol production, an increase in ethanol imports or a shift away from corn as a principal raw material used to produce ethanol could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.A major factor underlying the level of demand for nitrogen-based fertilizer products is the expanding production of ethanol in the United States and the expanded use of corn in ethanol production. Ethanol production in the United States is highly dependent upon numerous federal and state laws and regulations, and is made significantly more competitive by various federal and state incentives, mandated production of ethanol pursuant to federal renewable fuel standards, and permitted increases in ethanol percentages in gasoline blends, such as E15, a gasoline blend containing 15% ethanol. However, a number of factors, including a continuing “food versus fuel” debate and studies showing that expanded ethanol production may increase the level of GHGs in the environment, have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol, allow increased ethanol imports and adopt temporary waivers of the current renewable fuel standard levels, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Therefore, ethanol incentive programs may not be renewed, or if renewed, they may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable to ethanol producers than current incentive programs. For example, on December 31, 2011, Congress allowed both the 45 cents per gallon ethanol tax credit and the 54 cents per gallon ethanol import tariff to expire. In addition, in December 2013, bipartisan legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate to eliminate the corn-ethanol blending requirement for refiners. Similarly, the EPA’s waivers partially approving the use of E15 could be revised, rescinded or delayed. These actions could have a material adverse effect on ethanol production in the United States, which could reduce the demand for ammonia for use as a nitrogen fertilizer. If such reduced demand for nitrogen fertilizer in the United States were significant and prolonged, it could adversely affect the prices we receive on sales of our ammonia products to industrial customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Furthermore, most ethanol is currently produced from corn and other raw grains, such as milo or sorghum, especially in the Midwest. The current trend in ethanol production research is to develop an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulose-based biomass, such as agricultural waste, forest residue, municipal solid waste and energy crops (plants grown for use to make biofuels or directly exploited for their energy content). If an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulose-based biomass is developed, the demand for corn may decrease significantly, which could reduce demand for nitrogen fertilizer products and have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive on sales of our ammonia products and our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Evolving environmental laws and regulations on hydraulic fracturing could have an indirect effect on our financial performance.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and increasingly common practice that is used to stimulate production of crude oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations, and is primarily presently regulated by state agencies. However, Congress has in the past and may in the future consider legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing by federal agencies. Many states have already adopted laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on 25Table of Contentsoil and/or natural gas drilling activities. The EPA is also moving forward with various related regulatory actions, including approving, on April 17, 2012, new regulations requiring, among other matters, “green completions” of hydraulically-fractured wells by 2015. We do not believe these new regulations will have a direct effect on our operations, but because oil and/or natural gas production using hydraulic fracturing is growing rapidly in the United States, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to such drilling activities or to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted, this could result in a reduction in the supply of natural gas and an increase in the price of natural gas. An increase in the price of natural gas could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, a significant and sustained increase in domestic natural gas prices could make it more attractive for international producers of methanol and ammonia to import their products into the United States, which competition could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our operations are dependent on third parties and their pipelines to provide us with our natural gas, hydrogen and nitrogen feedstock. A deterioration in the financial condition of a third-party supplier, the inability of a third-party supplier to perform in accordance with its contractual obligations or the unavailability of a supplier’s pipeline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions.Our operations depend in large part on the performance of third-party suppliers, including Kinder Morgan, DCP Midstream, Florida Gas Transmission, Houston Pipeline Company, Air Products and Air Liquide for the supply of natural gas, hydrogen and nitrogen. Our ability to obtain natural gas and other inputs necessary for the production of methanol and ammonia is dependent upon the availability of these third parties’ pipeline systems interconnected to our facility. Because we do not own these pipelines, their continuing operation is not within our control. These pipelines may become unavailable for a number of reasons, including testing, maintenance, capacity constraints, accidents, government regulation, weather-related events or other third-party actions. If third-party pipelines become partially or completely unavailable, our ability to operate could be restricted and the transportation costs of our feedstock supply could increase, thereby reducing our profitability. In addition, should any of our third-party suppliers fail to perform in accordance with existing contractual arrangements, our operations could be forced to halt. Alternative sources of supply could be difficult to obtain. Any downtime associated with our operations, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Delays, interruptions or other limitations in the transportation of the products we produce could affect our operations.Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply products to our customers. Any significant delays, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to transport our products could negatively affect our operations. Currently, approximately 43% of our methanol and approximately 80% of our ammonia is transported by barge along the Gulf Coast, approximately 51% of our methanol and approximately 13% of our ammonia is transported directly to certain customers through their pipelines and approximately 6% of our methanol and approximately 7% of our ammonia is transported to certain customers through our truck loading facilities. We may experience risks associated with distribution of our products by barge, pipelines or truck. Delays and interruptions may be caused by weather-related events, including hurricanes that would prevent the operation of barges for transport of our methanol and ammonia. Transport by pipeline may be interrupted because of accidents, earthquakes, hurricanes, governmental regulation, terrorism or other third-party actions. A significant increase in fuel prices could increase the costs incurred by our customers who transport our products by truck, which could decrease the volume of methanol and ammonia transported through our truck loading facilities. Prolonged interruptions in the transport of our products by barge or pipeline, or a reduction in the volume of methanol and ammonia transported through our truck loading facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our customers purchase our methanol and ammonia on an FOB delivered basis at our facility and then arrange and pay to transport it to their final destinations by barge according to customary practice in our market. Methanol and ammonia are also distributed to certain customers through pipelines connected directly to their facilities. However, in the future, our customers’ transportation needs and preferences may change and our customers may no longer be willing or able to transport purchased product from our facility or accept our product through their pipelines. In the event that our competitors are able to transport their products more efficiently or cost effectively than we do or work with our customers to develop direct pipelines to those customers, those customers may reduce or cease purchases of our products. If this were to occur, we could be forced to make a substantial investment in transportation capabilities to meet our customers’ delivery needs, and this would be expensive and time consuming. We may not be able to obtain transportation capabilities on a timely basis or at all, and our inability to provide transportation for products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.26Table of ContentsWe currently derive substantially all of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any of these customers without replacement on comparable terms would affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.We derive, and believe that we will continue to derive, substantially all of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Methanex, Koch and Rentech accounted for approximately 26%, 26%, and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our customers, at any time, may decide to purchase fewer metric tons of methanol or ammonia from us. If our customers decide to purchase fewer metric tons of methanol or ammonia or at lower prices, and we are unable to find replacement counterparties on terms as favorable as our current arrangements, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions may be materially adversely affected.We compete with certain of our customers which may result in conflicts of interest between us and those customers.We compete with certain of our customers, including Methanex and Koch. As competitors, our customers may take actions that would not be in our best interest. These customers may determine that it is strategically advantageous for them to reduce purchases of our product. In addition, they may sell our product to our other customers in an effort to reduce our market share. Any of these actions by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.All of our operations are located at a single facility in Texas, which makes us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area.The geographic concentration of our production facility in the Texas Gulf Coast means that we may be disproportionately exposed to disruptions in our operations if the region experiences severe weather, transportation capacity constraints, constraints on the availability of required equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation or natural disasters. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there are potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Downtime or other delays or interruptions to our operations from any of such factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Anhydrous ammonia is extremely hazardous. Any liability for accidents involving anhydrous ammonia that cause severe damage to property or injury to the environment and human health could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, the costs of transporting anhydrous ammonia could increase significantly in the future.We manufacture, process, store, handle, distribute and transport anhydrous ammonia, which is extremely hazardous. Major accidents or releases involving anhydrous ammonia could cause severe damage or injury to property, the environment and human health, as well as a possible disruption of supplies and markets. Such an event could result in civil lawsuits, fines, penalties and regulatory enforcement proceedings, all of which could lead to significant liabilities. Any damage to persons, equipment or property or other disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in operating revenues and significant additional cost to replace or repair and insure our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.In addition, we may incur significant losses or costs relating to the operation of barges used for the purpose of transporting our anhydrous ammonia. Due to the dangerous and potentially toxic nature of the cargo, a barge accident may result in fires, explosions and pollution. These circumstances may result in sudden, severe damage or injury to property, the environment and human health. In the event of pollution, we may be held responsible even if we are not at fault and complied with the laws and regulations in effect at the time of the accident. Litigation arising from accidents involving anhydrous ammonia may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for large amounts of damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Environmental laws and regulations could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remain in compliance or to remediate contamination that could give rise to material liabilities.Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the environment, product specifications and the generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal and remediation of solid and hazardous waste and materials. Violations of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial penalties, injunctive orders compelling installation of additional controls, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations or facility shutdowns.27Table of ContentsIn addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement of laws and regulations or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. These expenditures or costs for environmental compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our business is subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Past or future spills related to our facility or transportation of products or hazardous substances from our facility may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and potential cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under CERCLA for past or future spills without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with the law at the time of the spills. Pursuant to CERCLA and similar state statutes, we could be held liable for contamination associated with the facility we currently own and operate, facilities we formerly owned or operated (if any) and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or by-products containing hazardous substances for treatment, storage or disposal. The potential penalties and cleanup costs for past or future releases or spills, liability to third parties for damage to their property or exposure to hazardous substances, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require response actions could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.In addition, we may incur liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our facility. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for cleanup costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our facility to adjacent and other nearby properties.We may incur future costs relating to the off-site disposal of hazardous wastes. Companies that dispose of, or arrange for the transportation or disposal of, hazardous substances at off-site locations may be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of contamination at those off-site locations, regardless of fault. We could become involved in litigation or other proceedings involving off-site waste disposal and the damages or costs in any such proceedings could be material.Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. At the federal legislative level, Congress could adopt some form of federal mandatory GHG emission reduction laws, although the specific requirements and timing of any such laws are uncertain at this time. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency.In the absence of congressional legislation curbing GHG emissions, the EPA is moving ahead administratively under its CAA authority. In October 2009, the EPA finalized a rule requiring certain large emitters of GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions to the EPA. In accordance with the rule, we have begun monitoring our GHG emissions from our facility and have reported the emissions to the EPA beginning in 2011. On December 7, 2009, the EPA finalized its “endangerment finding” that GHG emissions, including CO2, pose a threat to human health and welfare. The finding allows the EPA to regulate GHG emissions as air pollutants under the CAA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized the “Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule,” which establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when certain large stationary sources, such as our facility, must obtain permits under the PSD and Title V programs of the CAA. The significance of the permitting requirement is that, in cases where a new source is constructed or an existing source undergoes a major modification, such as our debottlenecking project, the facility would need to evaluate and install BACT for its GHG emissions.On May 21, 2013, the Texas Legislature passed H.B. 788 which is intended to streamline GHG permitting in Texas by directing the TCEQ to promulgate rules to be approved by the EPA that would replace EPA permitting of GHGs in Texas with TCEQ permitting. The bill was signed by the Governor of Texas on June 14, 2013 and is effective. TCEQ adopted regulations implementing H.B. 788 on March 26, 2014 that went into effect on April 17, 2014. The EPA approved the TCEQ's greenhouse gas permitting program on October 31, 2014. The implementation of EPA regulations and/or the passage of federal or state climate change legislation will likely result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facility, (ii) install new emission controls on our facility and (iii) administer 28Table of Contentsand manage any GHG emissions program. Increased costs associated with compliance with any future legislation or regulation of GHG emissions, if it occurs, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Further, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. To the extent the United States implements this agreement, it could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, climate change legislation and regulations may result in increased costs not only for our business but also for our customers that utilize our products, thereby potentially decreasing demand for our products. Decreased demand for our products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.New regulations concerning the transportation of hazardous chemicals, risks of terrorism and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs.The costs of complying with regulations relating to the transportation of hazardous chemicals and security associated with our facility may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Targets such as chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. The chemical industry has responded to the issues that arose in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 by starting new initiatives relating to the security of chemical industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives. Simultaneously, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the cost of complying with new regulations.We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.Our facility is subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs.Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition or make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.Our level of indebtedness could have significant effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, therefore, important consequences to your investment in our securities, such as:•we may be limited in our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements or our other operational needs;•we may be limited in our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt;•we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less leverage since we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;•we may not have sufficient flexibility to react to adverse changes in the economy, our business or the industries in which we operate;•to the extent that we are unable to refinance our debt at maturity on favorable terms, or at all, our ability to fund our operations and our ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected; and•an event of default under our credit agreements (such as failure to maintain financial covenants) could cause our debt to be accelerated which could impair our ability to fund our operations and our ability to make cash distributions.29Table of ContentsOur ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. As of March 24, 2016, our current debt service requirements on an annualized basis are approximately $33.5 million per year of interest and principal payments on our Term Loan B Credit Facility and approximately $1.0 million per year of interest and commitment fees on our Revolving Credit Facility. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic and market conditions and financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other liquidity needs, which could result in our inability to comply with financial and other covenants contained in our debt agreements, our being unable to repay the principal of or pay interest on our indebtedness, and our inability to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, fund our other liquidity needs and maintain compliance with our financial and other covenants, we could be forced to curtail our operations, our creditors could accelerate our indebtedness and exercise other remedies and we could be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets or refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness. However, we cannot assure you that any such alternatives would be feasible or prove adequate.Restrictions in the agreements governing our current and future indebtedness contain or likely will contain significant limitations on our business operations, including our ability to pay distributions and other payments. As of December 31, 2015, we had $465.8 million of debt outstanding, excluding an unamortized debt discount of approximately $15.6 million. We and OCIB may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders will be subject to covenant restrictions under the agreements governing our indebtedness. We expect that our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will depend, in part, on our ability to satisfy applicable covenants as well as the absence of a default or event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness. If we were unable to comply with any such covenant restrictions in any quarter, our ability to pay distributions to unitholders would be curtailed. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities.”In addition, we are subject to covenants contained in our debt agreements and any agreement governing other future indebtedness that will, subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of OCIB or any of our future subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell assets, pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our common units, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions or enter into agreements with respect to our equity interests, and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities.” Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements. Upon a default, unless waived, our lenders would have all remedies available to a secured lender and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our assets and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation.To the extent our ability to borrow under our existing credit facilities is limited or restricted, our liquidity may be insufficient to meet the operational and financial needs of our business.Our ability to finance our business and operations, and ultimately to pay distributions to our unitholders, is dependent on our access to adequate sources of liquidity. Our ability to borrow under our existing third-party credit facilities is subject to covenant restrictions under the agreements governing those facilities. Our ability to borrow under our intercompany credit facilities with OCI is dependent on OCI’s ability and willingness to loan money to us under those facilities. To the extent that OCI faces liquidity, capital, credit or other constraints at the time we initiate borrowings under our intercompany credit facilities, we may be unable to draw the full amount otherwise available to us under those facilities. If for any of these or other reasons our ability to borrow additional funds under our third-party or intercompany credit facilities is limited or restricted, our ability to finance our business and operations and to pay distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected. For a further discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources- Credit Facilities.”30Table of ContentsThe closing of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction will constitute a change of control under our Term Loan B Credit Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility, which is an event of default under these credit facilities. Upon a default, unless waived, our lenders would have all remedies available to a secured lender and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our assets and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation.On August 6, 2015, OCI announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to combine its North American, European and Global Distribution businesses with CF’s global assets in the CF-OCI Combination Transaction valued at approximately $8.0 billion, based on CF’s then-current share price, including the assumption of approximately $2.0 billion in net debt. Under the terms of the combination agreement, CF will become a subsidiary of the new Dutch Company, and OCI will contribute, among other subsidiaries and interests, its 100% membership interest in our general partner and its 79.88% limited partner interest in us to the new Dutch Company. The closing of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction requires the approval of shareholders of both OCI and CF and is subject to receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.The closing of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction will constitute a change of control under our Term Loan B Credit Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility, which is an event of default under these facilities. Although we expect that the Term Loan B Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility will be refinanced in connection with the closing of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction, CF is not obligated to do so and, consequently, there is no assurance that such refinancing will occur on acceptable terms or at all. Upon a default, unless waived, our lenders would have all remedies available to a secured lender and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, cause their loans to become immediately due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against us or our assets and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation.The announcement of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction creates uncertainty that could adversely affect our ability to secure new customers or increase or extend agreements with existing customers, to enter into or retain business relationships that are important to our operations and to attract and retain qualified personnel, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations.The uncertainty surrounding whether or when the CF-OCI Combination Transaction will close and other aspects of the transaction may adversely affect our ability to enter into new customer agreements or extend or expand existing customer relationships if potential and existing customers choose to wait to learn whether we will be acquired before committing to new, extended or expanded customer relationships with us. Similarly, suppliers, vendors and other businesses that we may seek to contract with or expand existing relationships with may choose to wait to enter into new agreements or arrangements or change existing agreements or arrangements with us. If such uncertainty continues for a protracted period, our ability to secure new, extended or expanded customer relationships may be adversely affected, or we may be compelled to pay higher fees or incur new or higher expenses to operate and maintain our business. We cannot predict whether or when any adverse effects on our business will result from these uncertainties, but such effects, if any, could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in future periods.Furthermore, the uncertainty surrounding the announced CF-OCI Combination Transaction may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We operate in an industry that currently experiences competition among different companies for qualified and experienced personnel. The uncertainty relating to the closing of the CF-OCI Combination Transaction may increase the risk that we could experience higher than normal rates of attrition or that we experience increased difficulty in attracting qualified personnel or incur higher expenses to do so. High levels of attrition among the management and other personnel necessary to operate our business or difficulties or increased expense incurred to replace any personnel who leave could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.We are a holding company and depend upon our operating subsidiary, OCIB, for our cash flows.We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted and all of our assets are owned by OCIB, our wholly-owned subsidiary and our sole direct or indirect subsidiary. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or to make cash distributions in the future will depend upon the cash flow of OCIB and the payment of funds by OCIB to us in the form of distributions or otherwise. The ability of OCIB to make any payments to us will depend on its earnings, the terms of its indebtedness, including the terms of any debt agreements, and legal restrictions. In particular, future debt agreements entered into by OCIB may impose significant limitations on the ability of OCIB to make distributions to us and consequently our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.31Table of ContentsSecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business.We incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership, including costs related to compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.As a publicly traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”). We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on the board of directors of our general partner or as executive officers.We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act for up to five years after becoming a publicly traded partnership. We are already incurring significantly higher costs due to being a publicly listed company in comparison to a privately owned company. After we are no longer an emerging growth company, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with those requirements applicable to companies that are not emerging growth companies, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In order to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we will need to implement new financial systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement appropriate procedures on a timely basis. Failure to implement such procedures could have an adverse effect on our ability to satisfy applicable obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Sarbanes-Oxley. Risks Inherent in an Investment in UsUnder our current cash distribution policy, we intend to distribute 100% of the cash available for distribution that we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.Under our current cash distribution policy, we intend to distribute 100% of the cash available for distribution that we generate each quarter to our unitholders. Please read Item 5—“Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” included in this report for additional information. As a result, our general partner will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank or intercompany borrowings or issuances of debt or equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. To the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.In addition, because we intend to distribute 100% of the cash available for distribution that we generate each quarter, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional partnership interests in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership interests will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding common unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional partnership interests, including partnership interests ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the cash available for distribution that we have to distribute to our unitholders.32Table of ContentsOur general partner and its affiliates, including OCI, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of OCI, and OCI is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.OCI indirectly owns a non-economic general partner interest and a 79.88% limited partner interest in us and indirectly owns and controls our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, OCI. Conflicts of interest may arise between OCI and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including OCI, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:•neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires OCI to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by OCI to increase or decrease production, shut down or reconfigure our plant, pursue and grow particular markets, or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. OCI’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of OCI;•OCI may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;•as a lender under the Intercompany Term Facility and Intercompany Revolving Facility, OCI Fertilizer, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of OCI, may have interests that differ from holders of our common units;•our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner’s liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;•except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;•our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership interests and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our common unitholders;•our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;•our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions;•our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;•our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;•our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than a specified percentage of our common units;•our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with OCI; and•our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. For example, Natgasoline LLC, a 33Table of Contentssubsidiary of OCI, plans to construct a methanol plant adjacent to our facility in Beaumont, Texas. This facility will compete directly or indirectly with our facility to one degree or another, and OCI has no obligation to offer, and we have no right to acquire, any interest in either of these facilities. OCI may also acquire or construct additional facilities in the future that may compete with us.Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:•provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner as opposed to in its individual capacity, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;•provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith reliance on the provisions of our partnership agreement;•provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in intentional fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful; and•provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above.Common units are subject to our general partner’s limited call right.If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by public unitholders at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. If our general partner and its affiliates reduce their ownership percentage to below 70% of the outstanding common units, then concurrently with such reduction in percentage ownership, the ownership threshold to exercise the limited call right will be permanently reduced to 80%. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or at a price that is less than the market price on the date of purchase and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and then exercising its limited call right. Our general partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right.Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have “say-on-pay” advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the 34Table of Contentsboard of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the member of our general partner, which is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of OCI. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.Our unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2⁄3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 24, 2016, our general partner and its affiliates own 79.88% of the common units issued and outstanding.Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management.Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions.In the event that: (1) we make distributions to our unitholders when our nonrecourse liabilities exceed the sum of (a) the fair market value of our assets not subject to recourse liability and (b) the excess of the fair market value of our assets subject to recourse liability over such liability, or a distribution causes such a result, and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of the distribution of such circumstances, such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the time of the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”).Likewise, upon the winding up of the partnership, in the event that (1) we do not distribute assets in the following order: (a) to creditors in satisfaction of their liabilities; (b) to partners and former partners in satisfaction of liabilities for distributions owed under our partnership agreement; (c) to partners for the return of their contribution; and finally (d) to the partners in the proportions in which the partners share in distributions and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of such circumstances, then such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-807 of the Delaware Act.A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known by the purchaser at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement.Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of OCI to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices.Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner, upon receipt of such information, determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption.Our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about such limited partner’s nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about such limited partner’s nationality, citizenship or other related status within a reasonable period after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as an ineligible holder. An ineligible holder does not have the right to direct the voting of such holder’s common units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units of any holder that is an ineligible holder. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.35Table of ContentsWe may issue additional partnership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute common unitholder interests.At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other partnership interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;•the amount of cash distributions on each common unit may decrease;•the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and•the market price of our common units may decline.OCIP Holding may sell common units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.OCIP Holding, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of OCI, owns 69,497,590 common units, representing approximately 79.88% of our outstanding common units. We have agreed to provide OCIP Holding with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade.As a publicly traded partnership we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements. Accordingly, holders of our common units will not have the same protections afforded to equity holders of companies subject to such corporate governance requirements.As a publicly traded partnership, we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of our general partner consist of independent directors;•the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and•the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.As a result of these exemptions, our general partner’s board of directors will not be comprised of a majority of independent directors. Our general partner’s board of directors does not currently intend to establish a nominating/corporate governance committee or a compensation committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to equity holders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.Tax RisksOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.36Table of ContentsIf we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress and the President have periodically considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of the partnership tax for publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to satisfy the requirements of the exception pursuant to which we are treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.The IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury have issued proposed regulations that, if finalized in their currently proposed form, would make it difficult or impossible for income derived from the production and marketing of methanol to constitute “qualifying income” following the expiration of a ten-year transition period.On May 6, 2015, the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury published proposed regulations that provide industry-specific guidance regarding whether income earned from certain activities will constitute qualifying income. In the event that an activity does not satisfy the standards set forth, the proposed regulations provide a ten-year transition period for partnerships, like us, that have received a private letter ruling from the IRS concluding that the income earned from such activity is qualifying income.If these proposed regulations become final in their currently proposed form, such final regulations would make it difficult or impossible for our income derived from the production and marketing of methanol to constitute qualifying income following the expiration of the ten-year transition period, which would commence on the date such regulations are published as final regulations. If the income derived from our methanol business does not constitute qualifying income, all or part of our businesses may become subject to federal income tax at the maximum corporate rate, which would have a material adverse effect on our distributable cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, the market price of our common units may decline significantly following, or in anticipation of, the expiration of any transition period. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Potential Impact of Proposed IRS Regulations Regarding Qualifying Income” for a more detailed discussion of the proposed regulations and their potential impact on us and our unitholders.If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.We intend to furnish to each unitholder, within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, specific tax information, including a Schedule K-1, which describes his or her share of our income, gain, loss and deduction for our preceding taxable year. In preparing this information we will take various accounting and reporting positions. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained in an audit of our federal income tax information returns. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Adjustments resulting from an IRS audit may 37Table of Contentsrequire each unitholder to adjust a prior year’s tax liability, and possibly may result in an audit of his or her return. Any audit of a unitholder’s return could result in adjustments not related to our returns, as well as those related to our returns.If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that such election will be effective in all circumstances. If we are unable to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to him, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on his share of our taxable income, even if he receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), referred to as “Treasury Regulations.” A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.38Table of ContentsWe prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS recently issued Treasury Regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the common unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same common unit will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Code, and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years.As a result of investing in our common units, you may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders are likely subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in Texas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns.39Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.