Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to read the risk factors below in connection with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distribution, to our unitholders. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow each quarter to support the payment of the targeted minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the volume of natural gas and NGLs we gather and transport and the volume of natural gas we process and treat and NGLs we fractionate; • the volume of natural gas, NGLs, and condensates associated with crude oil drilling; • the level of production of natural gas and the resultant market prices of natural gas and NGLs; • realized pricing impacts on our revenue and expenses that are directly subject to commodity price exposure; • the market prices of natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, which affects our processing margins; • capacity charges and volumetric fees associated with our transportation services; • cash settlements of hedging positions; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets; 16 Table of Contents • our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs, including reimbursements to our General Partner and its affiliates; • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the maximum transportation rates we can charge on our pipelines, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; • damage to pipelines, facilities, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism, including damage to third party pipelines or facilities upon which we rely for transportation services; • outages at the processing, treating or fractionation facilities owned by us or third parties caused by mechanical failure and maintenance, construction and other similar activities; • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; • new legislative and regulatory requirements regarding environment and safety that could result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs, reduce demand for our services or otherwise interrupt our natural gas and NGL supply, which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations; and • prevailing economic and market conditions. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and • other business risks affecting our cash levels. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our assets are used less. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas or NGLs that we gather or transport or in the volumes of natural gas that we process and treat, or NGLs that we fractionate, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the volumes of natural gas and NGLs processed, treated, fractionated and transported on our systems. Decreases in the volumes processed, treated, fractionated and transported by our systems can directly and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. These volumes can be influenced by factors beyond our control, including: • environmental or other governmental regulations; • competition; • weather conditions; • storage levels; • alternative energy sources; • decreased demand for natural gas and NGLs; 17 Table of Contents • fluctuations in commodity prices, including the price of natural gas and NGL prices; • economic conditions; • supply disruptions; • availability of supply connected to our systems; and • availability and adequacy of infrastructure to move, treat and process supply into and out of our systems. The volumes of natural gas and NGLs processed, treated, fractionated and transported on our systems also depends on the supply of natural gas, NGLs, and condensate from the producing regions that supply these systems. Supply of natural gas and NGLs can be affected by many of the factors listed above, including commodity prices and weather. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include (1) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation, (2) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and (3) our ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, levels of reserves, availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment. In addition, existing customers may not extend their contracts for a variety of reasons, including a decline in the availability of natural gas from the Mid-Continent, United States Gulf Coast and East Texas producing regions or if the cost of transporting natural gas from other producing regions through other pipelines into the markets served by our systems were to render the delivered cost of natural gas or NGLs on our systems uneconomical. If we are unable to find additional customers to replace lost demand or transportation fees, or if we are unable to find new sources of supply to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. Natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon prices are volatile, and a change in these prices in absolute terms, or an adverse change in the prices of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons relative to one another, could adversely affect our total segment margin and cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. The prices of natural gas, liquid hydrocarbons and other commodities have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flow may be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged pricing deterioration. For example, if there is a significant change in the relative prices of NGLs, condensate, crude oil, and/or natural gas, it will impact our processing margins, which are a significant component of our ability to generate cash for distribution to our unitholders. The markets for and prices of natural gas, liquid hydrocarbons and other commodities depend on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the supply of and demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of energy conservation measures; • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; • fluctuations in demand from electric power generators and industrial customers; 18 Table of Contents • the anticipated future prices of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other commodities; • worldwide political events, including actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; • worldwide weather events and conditions, including natural disasters and seasonal changes; and • worldwide economic conditions. Margins we would have realized from processing activities under certain of our percentage-of-liquids contracts may be reduced if we are unable to process a portion of the natural gas under these contracts. Under certain of our percentage-of-liquids contracts, we have guaranteed a fixed recovery of NGLs to our customers. To the extent that the volumes of natural gas delivered to us exceed the processing capacity of our processing plants, we may have to pay those customers the fully processed value of their natural gas even though we were unable to process a portion of their natural gas due to capacity limitations, which could reduce the margins we would have otherwise realized from processing activities under these contracts. Commodity price volatility and risks associated with our hedging activities could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil are inherently volatile, and we expect this volatility will continue. We buy and sell natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in connection with our marketing activities. Our exposure to commodity price volatility is inherent to our natural gas, NGLs and crude oil purchase and resale activities, in addition to our natural gas processing activities. For 2015, we expect approximately 47% of our gross margin to be attributable to contracts with some degree of direct commodity price exposure. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to reduce our commodity price exposure, we may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the level of the hedges. However, because we are not fully hedged, we will continue to have commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of the commodities we receive in-kind as payment for our gathering, processing, treating and transportation services. As a result of this unhedged exposure, a substantial decline in the prices of these commodities could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our future cash flows. Our hedging activities can result in substantial losses if hedging arrangements are imperfect or ineffective and our hedging policies and procedures are not followed properly or do not work as intended. Further, hedging contracts are subject to the credit risk that the other party may prove unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the contracts, particularly during periods of weak and volatile economic conditions. In addition, certain of the financial instruments we use to hedge our commodity risk exposures must be accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. This causes periodic earnings volatility due to fluctuations in commodity prices. Competition may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face competition in our gathering, processing and transportation business, as well as in our marketing and logistics business. Some of our competitors are larger companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing or transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, many of the large wholesale customers served by our natural gas systems have multiple pipelines connected or adjacent to their facilities. Thus, many of these wholesale customers have the ability to purchase natural gas directly from a number of pipelines or from third parties that may hold capacity on other pipelines. Most natural gas producers and owners have alternate gathering and processing facilities available to them. In addition, they have other 19 Table of Contents alternatives, such as building their own gathering facilities or, in some cases, selling their natural gas supplies without processing. Some of our natural gas and NGL marketing competitors have greater financial resources and access to larger supplies of natural gas than those available to us, which could allow those competitors to price their services more aggressively than we do. All of these competitive factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If we fail to balance our purchases of natural gas and our sales of residue gas and NGLs, our exposure to commodity price risk will increase. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases of natural gas and our sales of residue gas and NGLs. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes to us or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause an imbalance between our purchases and sales. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. Our natural gas assets are primarily located in Texas and Oklahoma. Due to our lack of geographic diversification, adverse developments in our existing areas of operation could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our natural gas assets are primarily located in Texas and Oklahoma and we intend to focus our future capital expenditures largely on developing our business in these areas. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend upon the demand for our services in these regions. Due to our lack of geographic diversity, adverse developments in our current segment of the midstream industry or our existing areas of operation could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders than if our operations were more diversified. Future construction and development costs could exceed our forecast, and our cash flow from construction and development projects may not be immediate, which may limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our strategy to grow our business contemplates significant expenditures for the development, construction or other acquisition of energy infrastructure assets. The construction of new assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, legal, political, materials and labor cost and operational risks that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to complete our projects at the costs estimated or within the time periods we have projected. If we experience material cost overruns, we will have to finance these overruns using one or more of the following methods: • using cash from operations; • delaying other planned projects; • incurring additional indebtedness; or • issuing additional equity. Any or all of these methods may not be available when or in the amounts needed or may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately following our expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, if we build a new pipeline or expand an existing facility, the design, construction, 20 Table of Contents development and installation may occur over an extended period of time and we may not receive any material increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the systems. If our revenues and cash flow do not increase at projected levels because of substantial unanticipated delays or other factors, we may not meet our obligations as they become due, and we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget, sell non-strategic assets, access the capital markets or reassess our level of distributions to unitholders to meet our capital requirements. Our growth strategies may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results, or are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions or organic growth projects and integrate acquired or developed assets or businesses. The acquisition and development of complementary midstream assets are components of our growth strategy. Acquisitions and organic growth projects present various risks and challenges, including: • inability to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase agreements; • mistaken assumptions about future prices, volumes, revenues and costs, future results of operations or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized; • a decrease in liquidity as a result of utilizing significant amounts of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance an acquisition or organic growth project; • the loss of critical customers or employees at an acquired business; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we may not be fully and adequately indemnified or insured; • the risk of failing to effectively integrate the operations or management of acquired assets or businesses or a significant delay in such integration; and • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations. In addition, we may be unable to identify acquisition targets and consummate acquisitions in the future. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to our unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in distributable cash flow. The acquisition component of our growth strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures by EEP of portions of its remaining ownership interest in Midcoast Operating to us over the next four to five years. We do not know when or if any such additional interests will be offered to us to purchase. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these interests will depend upon, among other things, EEP’s willingness to offer these interests for sale to us, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements with respect to the interests and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisition of additional interests in Midcoast Operating. Furthermore, if EEP reduces its ownership interest in us, it may be less willing to sell its remaining ownership interest in Midcoast Operating to us. In addition, there are no restrictions on EEP’s ability to transfer its ownership interest in Midcoast Operating to a third party. Our gathering, processing and transportation contracts subject us to renewal risks. We gather, purchase, process, treat, compress, transport and sell most of the natural gas and NGLs on our systems under contracts with terms of various durations. As these contracts expire, we may have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of our contract portfolio. For example, depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of a contract renewal, gathering and processing customers with fixed-fee or fixed-spread contracts may desire to enter into gathering 21 Table of Contents and transportation contracts under different fee arrangements, or a producer with whom we have a natural gas purchase contract may choose to enter into a transportation contract with us and retain title to its natural gas. In particular, a significant processing contract on our Anadarko system terminated in the third quarter of 2013. To the extent we are unable to renew or replace our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers’ liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets or reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, total insurance coverage for multiple insurable incidents exceeding coverage limits would be allocated by Enbridge on an equitable basis under an insurance allocation agreement. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering and transportation of natural gas and NGLs and the processing and treating of natural gas and fractionation of NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties; • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • ruptures, fires and explosions; and • other hazards, including those associated with high sulfur content natural gas, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. While we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our 22 Table of Contents operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. We are included in the comprehensive insurance program that is maintained by Enbridge for its subsidiaries and affiliates, including EEP. The comprehensive insurance program also includes property insurance coverage on our assets, except pipeline assets that are not located at water crossings, and earnings interruption resulting from an insurable event. In the unlikely event that multiple insurable incidents occur that exceed coverage limits within the same insurance period, the total insurance coverage will be allocated among the participating Enbridge entities on an equitable basis based on an insurance allocation agreement that we entered into with EEP, Enbridge and another Enbridge subsidiary. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our total segment margin and cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our natural gas and NGL gathering and transportation pipelines and natural gas processing and treating facilities and NGL fractionation facilities connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, processing plants, fractionation facilities and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines, plants and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from hurricanes or other operational hazards. In addition, if the costs to us to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in costs occurred, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process natural gas, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our segment margin and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. For example, following Hurricane Ike in 2008, the Mont Belvieu fractionation complex was shut down for a period of time due to loss of power. This shut down impacted our ability to process natural gas during the period at certain of our processing plants. Our ability to access capital markets and credit on attractive terms to obtain funding for our capital projects and acquisitions may be limited. Our ability to fund our capital projects and make acquisitions depends on whether we can access the necessary financing to fund these activities. Domestic and international economic conditions affect the functioning of capital markets and the availability of credit. Adverse economic conditions, such as those that became prevalent during the recessionary period of 2008 and continued through much of 2010, periodically result in weakness and volatility in the capital markets, which in turn can limit, temporarily or for extended periods, our ability to raise capital through equity or debt offerings. Additionally, the availability and cost of obtaining credit commitments from lenders can change as economic conditions and banking regulations reduce the credit that lenders have available or are willing to lend. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of market risks, can make it difficult to obtain funding for our capital needs from the capital markets on acceptable economic terms. As a result, we may revise the timing and scope of these projects as necessary to adapt to prevailing market and economic conditions or ability to make distributions. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from bank credit arrangements or capital markets on acceptable terms, if needed and to the extent required. If funding is not 23 Table of Contents available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions and construction projects, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Debt we or Midcoast Operating incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. In 2013, Midcoast Operating entered into a Financial Support agreement with EEP as the financial services provider, providing for guaranties of, and letters of credit obtained by, EEP on an aggregate amount not to exceed $700.0 million. We also issued $400.0 million of notes in a private placement offering on September 30, 2014. Our existing and future level of debt, as well as Midcoast Operating’s future level of debt, could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability and Midcoast Operating’s ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • the funds that we or Midcoast Operating have available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our and Midcoast Operating’s respective cash flow required to make interest payments on outstanding debt; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt and Midcoast Operating’s debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. A shortage of skilled labor in the midstream natural gas industry could reduce labor productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The gathering and transporting of natural gas and NGLs and the processing and treating of natural gas and fractionating of NGLs require skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially and adversely affected. If our labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our General Partner’s employees, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. Our revolving credit facility limits our ability and Midcoast Operating’s ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units or other limited partner interests during the continuance of a default; 24 Table of Contents • make certain investments and acquisitions; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates other than subsidiaries; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or Midcoast Operating’s assets. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our or Midcoast Operating’s debt is accelerated, our assets and Midcoast Operating’s assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. To the extent Midcoast Operating seeks a credit rating and receives less than an investment grade credit rating, or EEP terminates the Financial Support agreement with Midcoast Operating, Midcoast Operating could be required to provide collateral for Midcoast Operating’s hedging liabilities. Currently, Midcoast Operating is party to certain International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., or ISDA®, agreements associated with the derivative financial instruments we use to manage our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. These ISDA® agreements require Midcoast Operating to provide assurances of performance if counterparties’ exposure to Midcoast Operating exceeds certain levels or thresholds. EEP generally provides letters of credit on Midcoast Operating’s behalf to satisfy such requirements. At the close of the Offering, EEP entered into a Financial Support agreement with Midcoast Operating under which, during the term of the agreement, EEP will provide letters of credit and guarantees in support of Midcoast Operating’s financial obligations under derivative agreements and natural gas and NGL purchase agreements. Under the Financial Support agreement, EEP’s support of Midcoast Operating’s obligations will terminate on the earlier to occur of (1) the fourth anniversary of the closing of the Offering and (2) the date on which EEP owns, directly or indirectly (other than through its ownership interests in us), less than 20% of the total outstanding limited partner interest in Midcoast Operating. Without an investment grade credit rating or financial support from EEP, we expect that Midcoast Operating will be required to provide letters of credit, cash collateral or other financial assurance with respect to new derivative agreements or purchase agreements that Midcoast Operating enters into. The amounts of any letters of credit Midcoast Operating provides under the terms of Midcoast Operating’s ISDA® agreements or other derivative financial instruments or agreements, or otherwise in support of our operations, would reduce the amount that we are able to borrow under our revolving credit facility. To the extent that EEP no longer provides this financial support or if we were otherwise required to guarantee the obligations currently guaranteed by EEP under the Financial Support agreement, the impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. EEP’s credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our ability to obtain credit in the future. EEP’s long-term credit ratings are currently investment grade. Although we do not have any indebtedness rated by any credit rating agency, we may have rated debt in the future. Credit rating agencies will likely 25 Table of Contents consider EEP’s debt ratings when assigning ours because of EEP’s ownership interest in us and control of our operations. If one or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade the outstanding indebtedness of EEP or us, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to grow our business and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our logistics and marketing operations involve market and regulatory risks. As part of our logistics and marketing activities, we purchase natural gas and NGLs at prices determined by prevailing market conditions. Following our purchase of natural gas and NGLs, we generally resell the natural gas or NGLs at a higher price under a sales contract that is generally comparable in terms to our purchase contract, including any price escalation provisions. The profitability of our logistics and marketing operations may be affected by the following factors: • our ability to negotiate on a timely basis commodity purchase and sales agreements in changing markets; • reluctance of wholesale customers to enter into long-term purchase contracts; • consumers’ willingness to use other fuels when natural gas or NGL prices increase significantly; • timing of imbalance or volume discrepancy corrections and their impact on financial results; • the ability of our customers to make timely payment; • inability to match purchase and sale of natural gas or NGLs on comparable terms; and • changes in, limitations upon or elimination of the regulatory authorization required for our wholesale sales of natural gas and NGLs in interstate commerce. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all risks. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. We use derivative financial instruments to manage the risks associated with market fluctuations in commodity prices, as well as to reduce volatility to our cash flows. Based on our risk management policies, all of our derivative financial instruments are associated with an underlying asset, liability and/or forecasted transaction and are not entered into with the objective of speculating on commodity prices or interest rates. These policies cannot, however, eliminate all risk of unauthorized trading and other speculative activity. Although this activity is monitored independently by our risk management function, we remain exposed to the risk of non-compliance with our risk management policies. We can provide no assurance that our risk management function will detect and prevent all unauthorized trading and other violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception, collusion or other intentional misconduct is involved, and any such violations could result in significant financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Compliance with environmental and operational safety laws and regulations may expose us to material costs and liabilities. Our pipeline, gathering, processing and trucking operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational and worker safety. Numerous governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with the laws and regulations they administer and permits they issue, often imposing complex requirements and necessitating capital expenditures or increased operating costs to achieve compliance. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and operating permits can result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Our natural gas gathering, processing and 26 Table of Contents transportation and NGL fractionation operations expose us to the risk of incurring significant environmental and safety-related costs and liabilities. Additionally, operational modifications, including pipeline restrictions, necessary to comply with regulatory requirements and resulting from our handling of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons, historical environmental contamination, accidental releases or upsets, regulatory enforcement, litigation or safety and health incidents can also result in significant cost or limit revenues and volumes. In addition, environmental and operational safety laws and regulations, including but not limited to pipeline safety, wastewater discharge and air emission requirements, continue to become more stringent over time, particularly those related to the oil and gas industry. We may incur joint and several strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for gathering or processing activities for a number of years, often by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons are handled or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may also incur costs in the future due to changes in environmental and safety laws and regulations, or re-interpretations of enforcement policies or claims for personal, property or environmental damage. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance or through higher rates. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. Because our operations, including our processing, treating and fractionation facilities and our compressor stations, are sources of greenhouse gases, legislation and regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities, and could delay future permitting. At the federal level, the United States Congress has in the past and may in the future consider legislation to impose a tax on carbon or require a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. On September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a rule requiring nation-wide reporting of greenhouse gas emissions beginning January 1, 2010. The rule applies primarily to large facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gas emissions per year and to most upstream suppliers of fossil fuels and industrial greenhouse gas, as well as to manufacturers of vehicles and engines. Subsequently, on November 30, 2010, the EPA issued a supplemental rulemaking that expanded the types of industrial sources that are subject to or potentially subject to the EPA’s mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirements to include petroleum and natural gas systems. These regulations were amended by the EPA in November 2014. The EPA has stated, consistent with President Obama’s Climate Action Plan, that it intends to establish reporting requirements for methane and other greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and gas sector operations and maintenance activities and adopt amended regulations by the end of 2016 for the sector if further reductions are warranted. The EPA has concluded that the April 2010 issuance of regulations to control the greenhouse gas emissions from light duty motor vehicles (the “tailpipe rule”) automatically triggered provisions of the CAA that, in general, could potentially require stationary source facilities that emit more than 250 tons per year of carbon dioxide equivalent to obtain permits to demonstrate that best practices and technology are being used to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Under the phased-in approach currently being implemented by the EPA, for most purposes, new permitting provisions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are required for new major source facilities that emit 100,000 tons per year or more of carbon dioxide equivalent, or CO2e, and existing major source facilities making major modifications that would increase greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 CO2e. On May 13, 2010, the EPA issued the “tailoring rule,” which served to increase the greenhouse gas emissions threshold that triggers the permitting requirements for major new (and major modifications to existing) stationary sources. This rule was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Coalition for Responsible Regulation v. EPA) and then subsequently revised by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2013 (Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA). The 2014 court opinion invalidates the “Tailoring Rule” which purported to establish new PSD applicability thresholds for GHGs in the Clean Air Act. The Court invalidated the EPA’s action 27 Table of Contents concluding that the EPA rewriting of the statutory thresholds was impermissible and the EPA has no power to tailor legislations to bureaucratic policy goals by rewriting unambiguous statutory term. The decision was final July 25, 2014. This ruling will render a substantial portion of state GHG permitting rules unnecessary given that no PSD or Title V permit for GHG emissions is even allowable under the federal Clean Air Act. Pipeline operations involve numerous risks that may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Operation of complex pipeline systems, gathering, treating, processing and trucking operations involves many risks, hazards and uncertainties. These events include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of the facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These types of catastrophic events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, any of which could also result in substantial losses for which insurance may not be sufficient or available and for which we may bear a part or all of the cost. Costs of pipeline seepage over time may be mitigated through insurance, however, if not discovered within the specified insurance time period we would incur full costs for the incident. In addition, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties from regulators in connection with such events. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential communities, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering locations, the level of damage resulting from these catastrophic events could be greater. Our assets vary in age and were constructed over many decades which may cause our inspection, maintenance or repair costs to increase in the future. In addition, there could be service interruptions due to unknown events or conditions, or increased downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our pipelines vary in age and were constructed over many decades. Pipelines are generally long-lived assets, and pipeline construction and coating techniques have changed over time. Depending on the era of construction, some assets will require more frequent inspections, which could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Measurement adjustments on our pipeline system can materially affect our financial condition. Natural gas and NGL measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our pipelines. The quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments is complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant quantities (i.e., thousands) of measurement meters that we use throughout our systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas and NGLs in the streams gathered and processed through our systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. Each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our systems and may materially affect our results of operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues. A significant portion of our customers’ natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in Congress. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in 28 Table of Contents other ways, with the EPA having commenced a multi-year study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources; the multi-year study’s individual research projects began publishing results in 2013 and individual studies are ongoing. In addition, the EPA has announced its intention to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production activities under the CWA and is scheduled to issue a proposed rule in 2015. On April 17, 2012, the EPA also approved final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. These new rules address emissions of various pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities by, among other things, requiring new or reworked hydraulically-fractured gas wells to control emissions through flaring until 2015, after which reduced emission (or “green”) completions must be used. The rules also establish specific new requirements, effective in 2012, for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks, gas processing plants, and certain other equipment. On April 12, 2013, EPA proposed amendments to the rule which would, among other things, provide additional time for recently constructed, modified or reconstructed storage tanks to install emission controls. These rules may require a number of modifications to our customers’ and our own operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. Compliance with such rules could result in additional costs for us and our customers, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. Several states have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. For example, on December 13, 2011, the TRRC adopted the Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Disclosure Rule implementing a state law passed in June 2011, requiring public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluid contents for wells drilled under drilling permits issued after February 1, 2012. Certain states, including the State of Texas, also have taken regulatory action in response to increased seismic activity that in certain cases have been connected to hydraulic fracturing. In addition, at least one municipality in a state in which we operate, the City of Denton, Texas, has followed others in adopting bans or severely restricting hydraulic fracturing activities. Litigation concerning this ban, as well as others, is ongoing. We cannot predict whether any other legislation or regulation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits are required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal, state or local level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs, and prohibitions for producers who drill near our pipelines. These factors could reduce the volumes of natural gas and NGLs available to move through our gathering and other systems, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and results of operations. Changes in, or challenges to, our rates and other terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The rates charged by several of our pipeline systems are regulated by the FERC or state regulatory agencies or both. These regulatory agencies also regulate other terms and conditions of the services these pipeline systems provide, including the types of services we may offer. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower our tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service we might propose, the profitability of our pipeline businesses would suffer. If we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which if delayed could further reduce our cash flow. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 29 Table of Contents The majority of our pipelines are not subject to regulation by the FERC; however, a change in the jurisdictional characterization of our assets, or a change in policy, could result in increased regulation of our assets which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The substantial majority of our pipeline assets are gas-gathering facilities or interests in gas-gathering facilities. Unlike interstate gas transportation facilities, natural gas gathering facilities are exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the NGA. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental, and in some cases non-discriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. Although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to all of our facilities, we believe that our natural gas pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such services in excess of the rate established by the FERC. Changes in trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. For the delivery of fuel and other products to our customers, we operate a fleet of specialized trucks and delivery equipment. We are therefore subject to regulation as a motor carrier by the DOT and various state agencies. These federal and state regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, generally governing such activities as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, driver licensing and insurance requirements, safety, equipment testing and transportation of hazardous materials. Our trucking operations, including the special modifications we make to our equipment and vehicles to operate in remote, rugged or environmentally sensitive areas, are subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may increase our costs. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, fuel emissions limits, changes in the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period and limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters. Our gathering systems and intrastate pipelines are subject to state regulation that could materially and adversely affect our operations and cash flows. State regulation of gathering facilities includes safety and environmental requirements. Several of our gathering systems are also subject to non-discriminatory take requirements and complaint-based state regulation with respect to our rates and terms and conditions of service. State and local regulation may cause us to incur additional costs or limit our operations, may prevent us from choosing the customers to which we provide service, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not own a majority of the land on which our pipelines are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We do not own a majority of the land on which our pipelines are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid 30 Table of Contents leases or rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Future terrorist or cyber-attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The adoption and implementation of statutory and regulatory requirements for swap transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. In July 2010 federal legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act provides additional statutory requirements for swap transactions, including energy and interest rate hedging transactions. These statutory requirements must be implemented through regulations, primarily through the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC. To date, the Dodd-Frank Act provisions have not materially changed the way many of our swap transactions are entered into, as we have been able to continue transacting with existing counterparties in over-the-counter markets or with registered exchanges to meet hedging requirements set forth in our risk policies. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities as an end user is uncertain at this time, as the CFTC has not yet promulgated final regulations implementing some of the key provisions on margining or position limits. We may have new regulatory burdens from these developments in addition to the various business conduct, recordkeeping and reporting rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act provisions currently in place. Moreover, longer term, fundamental changes to the swap market as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act requirements could significantly increase the cost of entering into and/or reduce the availability of new or existing swaps. Depending on the final rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities hedging transactions in circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures or other partnership purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our willingness or ability to execute hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of swaps as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if affiliates of our General Partner fail to attract and retain key management personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of the executive officers of our General Partner, all of whom are employees of affiliates of EEP’s general partner. Additionally, neither we nor our subsidiaries have employees. 31 Table of Contents Our General Partner is responsible for providing the employees and other personnel necessary to conduct our operations. All of the employees that conduct our business are employed by affiliates of our General Partner, including our President and Principal Executive Officer. The loss of any member of our management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consequently, our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on the continued ability of affiliates of our General Partner to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with midstream natural gas industry experience. Competition for these persons in the midstream natural gas industry is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us EEP owns and controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations and has limited duties to us and our unitholders. EEP, Enbridge and our General Partner have conflicts of interest with us and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other unitholders. EEP, which is controlled by Enbridge Energy Management, L.L.C., or Enbridge Management, through a delegation of control agreement with EEP’s general partner, controls our General Partner, and appoints all of the officers and directors of our General Partner, some of whom are also officers or directors of EEP’s general partner, Enbridge Management or Enbridge. Although our General Partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that it believes is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that they believe is in the best interests of EEP. Conflicts of interest may arise between EEP, Enbridge and their affiliates, including our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including EEP or Enbridge, over our interests and the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires EEP or Enbridge to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as EEP and Enbridge, in resolving conflicts of interest; • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner with contractual standards governing its duties limiting our General Partner’s liabilities and restricting remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • affiliates of our General Partner, including EEP and Enbridge, may compete with us, and neither our General Partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us; • EEP is under no obligation to offer us any additional interests in Midcoast Operating; • our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; 32 Table of Contents • our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; • our General Partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; • our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $45.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus and this cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our General Partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units; • our General Partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and • our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner, including EEP and Enbridge, and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. 33 Table of Contents In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in our new credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units as to distribution or liquidation, and our common and subordinated unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce our distributable cash flow. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, after the subordination period has ended, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our General Partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding Class A common units and Class B common units (including Class A common units and Class B common units held by affiliates of our General Partner), voting together as a single class. Reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our General Partner. Prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including EEP, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our General Partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Because our common units will be yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and the cost to us of any such issuance or incurrence. In addition, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to our limited partners with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary duties to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. In addition, our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to our limited partners for actions that might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under applicable state law. For example, our 34 Table of Contents partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner. When acting in its individual capacity, our General Partner is entitled to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us or any limited partner. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is deemed to have consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s liabilities and the remedies available to our limited partners for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to our limited partners for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: • whenever our General Partner, the board of directors of our General Partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our General Partner, the board of directors of our General Partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of our partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our limited partners for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith; • our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by the board of directors or the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner must be made in good faith and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our General Partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our General Partner’s board or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our unitholders in certain situations. Our General Partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Furthermore, our General Partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of 35 Table of Contents the incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the General Partner relative to resetting target distributions if our General Partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. Following a reset election by our General Partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. In the event of a reset of our minimum quarterly distribution and target distribution levels, our General Partner will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, a number of Class B common units equal to that number of Class B common units that would have entitled the holder of such units to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the two-quarter period prior to the reset election equal to the distribution to our General Partner on the incentive distribution rights in the quarter prior to the reset election prior two quarters. Our General Partner will also be issued the number of General Partner units necessary to maintain its General Partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election (currently 2.0%). We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per Class A common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our General Partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our General Partner may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued Class B common units, which, along with the Class A common units, are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for the General Partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. As a result, a reset election may cause holders of our Class A common units and Class B common units to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued Class B common units to our General Partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our General Partner’s incentive distribution rights. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and even if they are dissatisfied they currently cannot remove our General Partner without its consent. Unitholders have only limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have “say-on-pay” advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the board of directors of our General Partners and will have no right to elect our General Partner or the board of directors or our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The directors of our General Partner are chosen by EEP. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The unitholders will be unable initially to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates will own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding Class A common units, Class B common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. Our General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 51.9% of the total outstanding Class A common units, Class B common units and subordinated units on an aggregate basis, excluding common units purchased by directors and officers of our General Partner and Enbridge Management under our directed unit program. Also, if our General Partner is removed without cause as defined under our partnership agreement during the subordination period, and common units and subordinated units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into Class B common units and any existing arrearages on the Class A common units will be extinguished. A removal of our General Partner under these 36 Table of Contents circumstances would adversely affect the Class A common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. “Cause” is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the General Partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our General Partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our General Partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units into Class B common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our General Partner units or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner units to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of EEP to transfer its membership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the directors and officers of our General Partner with its own designees. The incentive distribution rights of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our General Partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its General Partner interest, our General Partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our General Partner could reduce the likelihood of EEP selling or contributing additional midstream assets to us, as EEP would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn could impact our ability to grow our asset base. We may issue additional partnership securities without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of additional partnership securities without the approval of our unitholders and our existing unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue partnership securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other partnership securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by holders of our common units will increase; 37 Table of Contents • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. EEP may sell our units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of December 31, 2014, EEP holds 1,335,056 Class A common units and 22,610,056 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into Class B common units on a one-for-one basis at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide EEP with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. Our General Partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our General Partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our General Partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then-outstanding Class A common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us to acquire all, but not less than all, of the Class A common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of our Class A common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date that is three business days before the General Partner exercises this right and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our General Partner or any of its affiliates for Class A common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our General Partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of this limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our General Partner from issuing additional Class A common units and exercising its limited call right. If our General Partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership 38 Table of Contents have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for any or all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Our partnership agreement will designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our unitholders, which would limit our unitholders’ ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our General Partner’s directors, officers or other employees. Our partnership agreement provides, that, with certain limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for any claims, suits, actions or proceedings (1) arising out of or relating in any way to our partnership agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of our partnership agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among our partners, or obligations or liabilities of our partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, our partners or us), (2) brought in a derivative manner on our behalf, (3) asserting a claim of breach of a duty owed by any of our, or our General Partner’s, directors, officers, or other employees, or owed by our General Partner, to us or our partners, (4) asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act or (5) asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in our common units is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. Although we believe this choice of forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our General Partner’s directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation or similar governing documents has been challenged in legal proceedings and it is possible that in connection with any action a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our partnership agreement to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 39 Table of Contents The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our Class A common units are listed on the NYSE. The NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on the boards of our General Partner or Enbridge Management, or to establish a compensation committee or nominating and corporate governance committee. In addition, any future issuance of additional Class A common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE’s shareholder approval rules that apply to corporations. Accordingly, holders of our Class A common units will not have the same protections afforded to investor owners of certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly-traded partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Internal Revenue Code, provides that publicly traded partnerships will, as a general rule, be taxed as corporations. An exception exists, however, with respect to a publicly traded partnership for which 90% or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of “qualifying income.” If less than 90% of our gross income for any taxable year is qualifying income, we will be taxed as a corporation under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes for that taxable year and all subsequent tax years. Although we do not believe that we will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes based on our current operations, the IRS could disagree with the positions we take. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax on our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash we have available for distribution to you. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 40 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted that subjects us to taxation as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships could be subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. It is possible, however, that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder. This allocation of taxable income may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we have taken or may take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our positions and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the tax basis of the unitholder’s common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than the unitholder’s tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. 41 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in more tax to you and may adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. The U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed Treasury Regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may be required to recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may be required to recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. 42 Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in over 14 states. Most of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a 43 Table of Contents personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Please consult your tax advisor. 