D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it may materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. We have divided our risks into the following categories: •Risks Related to the Sale of Our Products;•Risks Related to Government Regulation;•Risks Related to Our Fish Farming Operations;•Risks Related to Our Supply of Fish Feed and Feed Operations; •Risks Related to Our Industry;14Table of Contents•Risks Related to Our Business;•Risks Related to Acquisitions and Expansions;•Risks Related to Our Financing Arrangements;•Risks Related to Climate Change;•Risks Related to Our ADSs; and•Risks Related to Tax Matters. Risks Related to the Sale of Our Products Our results are substantially dependent on salmon prices, and salmon prices are subject to large short- and long-term fluctuations due to variations in supply and demand caused by factors such as smolt release, biological factors, quality, shifts in consumption and license changes. A substantial portion of our products sold are salmon products (representing 91.7% of sales in 2014). Accordingly, our results of operation are substantially dependent on salmon prices. Global and regional prices of salmon are subject to significant fluctuation.Historically, prices have been driven primarily by the global and regional supply and demand for salmon. The demand for farmed salmon is affected by a number of different factors, such as changes in customer preferences, changes in public attitude towards farmed salmon, relative pricing of substitute products, such as poultry, pork and beef, and general economic conditions, such as levels of employment, inflation, growth in gross domestic product, or GDP, disposable income and consumer confidence. Demand for farmed salmon could decrease in the future and put downward pressure on salmon prices. The supply of farmed salmon fluctuates strongly due to variations in factors, such as smolt release (which is determined one to two years prior to harvesting), feeding efficiency, biological factors, including seawater temperatures, sea lice and fish diseases. For example, in recent years, Chilean salmon production has been affected by Infectious Salmon Anemia, or ISA, significantly reducing global supply of salmon. As a result of the long production cycle (two to three years) with only a limited period available for harvesting, we and other salmon producers have limited flexibility in managing salmon supply from month to month. In addition, salmon is generally sold as a fresh commodity with a limited time span available between harvesting and consumption further limiting producers’ ability to control supply. The consequence of these dynamics is that salmon farmers are expected to be price takers in the market from week to week. Increases in harvests may therefore result in a significant reduction in salmon reference prices. In addition, an increased utilization of current production licenses or issuance of new production licenses could result in short- and/or long-term over-production in the industry, which may result in a significant reduction in salmon reference prices. Short- or long-term decreases in the price of farmed salmon may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We have limited flexibility to adjust our product mix away from salmon in order to accommodate changing pricing circumstances. A reduction in the price of salmon may trigger a substantial reduction in the value of our biological assets. We assess the value of our biological assets on a monthly basis, and the price of salmon is a significant factor in the valuation of our biological assets, which were valued at NOK 10,014.0 million and NOK 9,536.6 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We recorded a net fair value adjustment on biological assets of NOK 2,258.4 million and NOK 2,742.9 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, with each adjustment being primarily driven by changes in the price of salmon. Future fluctuations in salmon prices may result in significant fair value adjustments. We may be unable to effectively hedge our exposure to short- and medium-term fluctuations in salmon prices. 15Table of ContentsWe seek to manage our exposure to short- and medium-term fluctuations in salmon reference prices through sales contracts and Fish Pool financial futures as well as through our secondary processing activities (as prices for secondary processed salmon tend to be more stable than for primary processed salmon). However, we do not hedge all of our exposure to changes in salmon prices. In addition, our contracts and financial futures may not be fulfilled or may not be available in the future or may be ineffective in hedging our exposure to salmon price fluctuations. In addition, our sales contracts and financial futures may result in price achievement below reference prices in an environment of rising reference prices. Furthermore, our secondary processing activities may not reduce the impact of fluctuating salmon reference prices on our operations. An inability to effectively hedge our exposure to salmon prices may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Market demand for our products may decrease. We face competition from other producers of seafood as well as from other protein sources, such as pork, beef and poultry. The bases on which we compete include: •price;•product quality;•brand identification; and•customer service.Demand for our products is also affected by our competitors’ promotional spending. We may be unable to compete successfully on any or all of these bases in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Moreover, although historically the logistics and perishability of seafood has led to regionalized competition, the market for fresh and frozen seafood is becoming increasingly globalized as a result of improved delivery logistics and improved preservation of the products. Increased competition, consolidation, and overcapacity may lead to lower product pricing of competing products that could reduce demand for our products and this may have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Changes in consumer preferences or failure of our new products to appeal to consumers could adversely impact our business, especially our Consumer Products segment. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often. Failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand for our products, especially for our Consumer Products segment (formerly the VAP Europe and Morpol segments). This segment comprises our European secondary processing and value added operations, as well as our European end product sales of secondary processed seafood, including logistics. Our secondary processed products are particularly susceptible to changes in consumer preferences. In addition, our Consumer Products segment regularly introduces new products which may not appeal to our consumers’ preferences. To the extent such new offerings are unsuccessful, this business may suffer. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences for fish, especially secondary processed seafood. If we are unable to do so, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Government Regulation Failure to ensure food safety and compliance with food safety standards could result in serious adverse consequences for us. As our end products are for human consumption, food safety issues (both actual and perceived) may have a negative impact on the reputation of and demand for our products. In addition to the need to comply with relevant food safety regulations, it is of critical importance that our products are safe and perceived as safe and healthy in all relevant markets. 16Table of ContentsOur products may be subject to contamination by food-borne pathogens or other substances which may be harmful to the consumer, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridia, Salmonella, E. Coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Noroviruses, parasites or contaminants. These pathogens and substances are found in the environment; therefore, there is a risk that one or more of these organisms and pathogens can be introduced into our products as a result of improper handling, poor processing hygiene or cross-contamination by us, the ultimate consumer or any intermediary. We have little, if any, control over handling procedures once we ship our products for distribution. In 2012, we detected Listeria in cold smoked salmon processed at our factory in Chile. A voluntary recall was carried out in agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA. No illness was experienced or reported in relation to the incident. The detection and resulting product recall resulted in inventory write-downs amounting to NOK 26.0 million. In July 2013, traces of crystal violet, a dye commonly used in textiles and ink found in pens and printer toner but also an anti-fungal agent banned in the United States, were found in salmon being imported into the United States from our Chilean third-party secondary processing facility. As a result, the FDA issued an import alert for the third-party Chilean secondary processing facility. During 2014, our internal system for reporting food safety incidents captured four incidents classified as more serious, none of which led to any reported illness or negative impact for consumers. In 2013 we reported eight such incidents. We define a food safety incident as a situation that requires specific actions to maintain the safety of our products. Typical food safety incidents may be labeling errors related to ingredients that may cause allergies in sensitive individuals or to the product’s shelf life. Incidents defined as more serious are incidents that may have an impact on consumer health, e.g., such products may contain food-borne pathogens, foreign bodies or labeling errors related to allergens. Furthermore, we may not be able to prevent contamination of our fish by pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, dioxins or heavy metals. Such contamination is primarily the result of environmental contamination of fish feed raw materials such as fishmeal, fish oil, mineral mixes and raw materials from crops, which could result in a corresponding contamination of our fish feed and our fish. Residues of environmental pollutants present in our fish feed may pass undetected in our products and may reach consumers due to failure in surveillance and control systems. An inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity. Increased quality demands from authorities in the future relating to food safety may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Legislation and guidelines with tougher requirements are expected and may imply higher costs for the food industry. In particular, the ability to trace products through all stages of development, certification and documentation is becoming increasingly required under food safety regulations. Further, limitations on additives and use of medical products in the farmed salmon industry may be imposed, which could result in higher costs for us. The food industry in general experiences high levels of customer awareness with respect to food safety and product quality, information and traceability. We may fail to meet new and exacting customer requirements, which could reduce demand for our products. Governmental regulation, including food safety and aquaculture regulation, affects our business. The fish farming and processing industries are subject to regional, federal and local governmental regulations relating to the farming, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of food products. New laws and regulations, or stricter (or otherwise adverse to us) interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may materially affect our business or operations in the future. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by environmental agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or interpretations could have serious consequences, including criminal, civil and administrative penalties, loss of production, injunctions, product recalls and negative publicity. Some environmental Non-Government Organizations, or NGOs, have advocated for salmon farming to be restricted to farming in a contained environment, which would substantially increase our costs. Relevant authorities may introduce further regulations for the operations of aquaculture facilities, such as enhanced standards of production facilities, capacity requirements, fish feed quotas, fish density, site allocation conditions or other parameters for production. Furthermore, authorities may impose stricter environmental requirements upon fish farming, 17Table of Contentse.g., restrictions or a ban on discharges of waste substances from the production facilities, stricter requirements for seabed restoration, stricter requirements to prevent fish escapes and new requirements regarding animal welfare. Investments necessary to meet new regulatory requirements and penalties for failure to comply with such requirements could be significant. Likewise, an absence of or ineffective government regulation may lead to unsustainable farming practices at an industry-wide level. The industry has historically been unable to cooperate to create sustainable practices in the absence of government regulation. We have therefore relied on such regulation to help create and enforce practices that ensure the long-term sustainability of the industry. Ineffective regulation can hinder our industry’s ability to implement sustainable and profitable practices. Accordingly, changes in regulation or ineffective government regulation may have a material adverse effect on the fish farming industry as a whole, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Trade restrictions resulting in suboptimal distribution of salmon may be intensified, creating a negative impact on price in some countries. Farmed salmon is produced in a limited number of countries and sold globally. Historically, trade restrictions have inhibited the optimal distribution of farmed salmon to the markets and impacted the price yield for farmed salmon producers in the countries affected by such restrictions. Recently, certain salmon exports to Russia and China have been subject to trade restrictions. Trade restrictions could include import prohibitions, minimum import prices and high import duties, reducing the competitiveness of our products as compared to other available products. Many of our production locations are located outside our principal markets, and therefore we are exposed to trade restrictions. Continuous effects of such trade restrictions or introduction of new trade restrictions may have a significant impact on our ability to sell in certain regions or our ability to charge competitive prices for our products in such regions. We may not be permitted to continue to operate at sites located close to protected or highly sensitive areas or to use certain fish feed and medication at those sites. Some of our sites are located close to protected areas or highly sensitive areas with respect to biodiversity. For example, in Norway, we operate three sites in a protected area and have additional sites located on the border of wildlife conservation areas; in Scotland, we operate eight sites located in special areas of conservation, which include reef habitats that may be affected by organic deposition from our sites and a number of our sites are in proposed marine protected areas; in Canada, 11 marine sites border the Broughton Archipelago Provincial Marine Park, which is home to several species of marine mammals; and in Ireland, five of our marine sites are located within special areas of conservation. The effect of salmon farming on the environment and biodiversity is being intensively discussed among scientific groups. New developments in the perception of the impact of salmon farming on the environment (whether justified or not) may result in closure of sites located in vulnerable areas or requirements to implement costly measures. Specific additives used in fish feed and medication could become prohibited at these sites if found (or believed) to have an adverse impact on the environment. Compliance with such laws, rules and regulations, or a breach of them, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Our fish farming operations are dependent on fish farming licenses. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate require us to obtain a license for each fish farm owned and operated in that jurisdiction. We have obtained and currently hold a license to own and operate each of our fish farms where a license is required. In order to maintain the licenses, we have to operate our current farms and, if we pursue acquisitions or construction of new farms, we will need to obtain additional licenses to operate those farms, where required. Licenses in each country are subject to certain requirements, and we risk penalties (including, in some cases, criminal charges), sanctions or even loss of license if we fail to comply with license requirements or related regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” We are also exposed to dilution of our licenses where a government issues new licenses to fish farmers other than us, thereby reducing the current value of our fish farming licenses. Governments may change the way licenses are distributed or otherwise dilute or invalidate our licenses. If we are unable to maintain or obtain new fish farming licenses or if new licensing regulations dilute the value of our licenses, this may have a material adverse effect on our business. Licenses generally require—and future licenses may require—that we leave the seabed under our fish farms fallow for a period of time following harvest. We may resume operation after a set period of time, provided that certain environmental and fish health targets are met. These requirements may increase or become more stringent, which could increase our costs. Norwegian salmon farming operation is subject to ownership restrictions and increased ownership may result in stricter requirements. 18Table of ContentsIn Norway, acquisition of more than 15% of the production capacity for salmon and trout in seawater requires application to and approval by the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Trade. In addition, various ownership thresholds (15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35% and 40%) are accompanied by specific minimum requirements for research and development spending, secondary processing activities and contribution to the education of young talents. Furthermore, only in exceptional circumstances may the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Trade approve acquisitions of licenses resulting in a company exceeding 40% of the total production capacity. We currently hold permission to own up to 25% of the total production capacity, and our total production in 2014 was below this limit. We may not be able to increase our production capacity in Norway, and if we increase our production capacity, our Norwegian operations could be subject to stricter requirements and conditions, increasing our operating costs. The ownership limitations and requirements have been subject to several amendments over the last decade due to shifting political circumstances, and until July 2013, no company was allowed to own more than 25% of the total concessionary biomass in Norway. If the newly adopted amendments are reversed or stricter regulations are otherwise implemented, this may limit our ability to expand our production in Norway and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Antitrust and competition regulation may restrict further growth in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our business and operations are subject to regulation by antitrust or competition authorities in Norway, the European Union and Canada, among other jurisdictions, particularly because of our significant market shares in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Risks of infringing competition laws and regulations are higher in markets in which we hold a leading position. In such markets, the applicable antitrust and competition laws and regulations could reduce our operational flexibility. Responsible authorities and jurisdictional bodies may take actions, potentially contrary to our interests, aimed at maintaining or reinforcing competition in our markets. In 2013, we agreed with the European Commission to divest certain parts of Morpol in connection with the acquisition of Morpol. Further similar action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. We could be adversely affected by violations of the applicable anti-corruption laws. Applicable anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act of 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments (to foreign officials and otherwise) and require companies to keep accurate books and records as well as appropriate internal controls. Our training programs and policies mandate compliance with such laws. Such programs and policies, however, may not prevent a violation of applicable anti-corruption law. We now operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to various degrees, particularly Vietnam. If we were found liable for violations of anti-corruption laws (due to our own acts or inadvertence, or the acts or inadvertence of others, including employees of third-party partners or agents), we may incur civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, or suffer significant internal investigation costs or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or reputation. Risks Related to Our Fish Farming Operations Fish are adversely affected by sea lice, and we may incur significant sea lice mitigation costs and we may be exposed to regulatory actions for failing to maintain sea lice levels below the relevant trigger levels. Sea lice, of which there are many species, are a naturally occurring type of crustacean parasite that attaches itself to the mucus and skin of several fish species, including salmon. High abundance of sea lice can result in lesions and affect the fish’s health, welfare, growth and immunity to diseases. Sea lice are found in all the countries in which we operate and are closely monitored by national governments, mainly from the perspective of limiting surrounding wild fish populations’ sea lice exposure from fish farms. Regulators set limits on the number of sea lice per fish on the farms, and treatment of the fish is mandatory if levels approach such limits. The parasite is controlled through treatment with specific licensed medicine, hydrogen peroxide baths in well boats or enclosed cages, and biologically by using “cleaner fish,” which are fish species that eat the parasites directly from the fish’s skin. Treatment of sea lice is costly and the increased resistance against several types of medication used in sea lice control is a growing concern in the industry. There are also concerns over the interaction between farmed and wild salmon and the transmission of sea lice from one to another. As a response to these concerns, governments may require us to implement new or improved measures, reduced production/maximum allowed biomass, (or MAB) or require some of our sites to lie fallow for a certain period of time in order to control spreading of sea lice, thus increasing our costs.Although our ambition is to maintain sea lice levels below levels set by the government (also known as trigger levels), we may at times exceed such levels, for example, during periods of elevated seawater temperatures when sea lice levels can 19Table of Contentsincrease rapidly. Our failure to maintain our sea lice levels below the relevant trigger levels may result in a heightened need for treatment and/or regulatory action. Costs associated with sea lice mitigation and treatment activities can be significant, and damage suffered by our fish due to sea lice infections or through treatment failures may reduce our harvests and can result in impairment charges. Where fish have already been substantially weakened by sea lice, additional treatment may result in fish mortality and further biomass loss. In addition, high levels of sea lice in any of our operations may result in slower growth rates and increased mortality, each contributing to increased costs of operations. Our fish stocks, operations and reputation can be adversely affected by various diseases. Our fish are affected by diseases caused by viruses, bacteria and parasites which may have adverse effects on fish survival, health, growth and welfare and result in reduced harvest weight and volume, downgrading of products and claims from customers. A significant outbreak of disease represents a cost for us through, for example, direct loss of fish, lost growth on biomass, accelerated harvesting, loss of quality of harvested fish and prevention and treatment costs, and may also be followed by a subsequent period of reduced production capacity and loss of income. Diseases are also a threat to the environment and the welfare of the fish. Some diseases are subject to governmental control measures and are monitored closely by relevant regulatory bodies. The most severe diseases may require the culling and disposal of the entire stock, disinfection of the farm and a long subsequent fallow period for preventative measures to stop the disease from spreading. In addition, market access could be impeded by strict border controls, not only for salmon from the infected farm, but also for products originating from a wider geographical area surrounding the site of an outbreak. Continued disease problems may also attract negative media attention and public concerns. Salmon farming has historically experienced several episodes of extensive disease outbreaks. We have, and may in the future, experience extensive disease outbreaks. Epidemic outbreaks of diseases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Set forth below is a description of the major diseases that have affected our operations: •Heart and Skeletal Muscle Inflammation, or HSMI, is another infectious disease which in recent years has become widespread in Norway and Scotland. The disease affects the fish’s heart and skeletal musculature, normally in the first half of the seawater phase, with increased mortality, reduced health and periods of reduced growth being the most important loss factors. Mortality normally varies from 0% to 20%. As HSMI often occurs or intensifies following grading, movement and other similar events which may create a stressful environment for the fish, the disease leads to challenges in relation to sea lice treatments and other events necessitating fish movement. HSMI is assumed to be a viral disease, but the exact cause of the disease is not yet fully understood. Vaccines are under development, but are currently not in use in the industry. For the year ended December 31, 2014, HSMI was the number one cause of biomass mortality by number, resulting in a loss of 1,474.8 tonnes (or 1,055,934 fish in numbers).•Gill disease, or GD, is a general term used to describe gill pathology occurring in seawater which may be caused by different infectious agents such as amoebae, viruses or bacteria, as well as environmental factors including algal or jelly-fish blooms. Little is known about the cause of many of the gill conditions and to what extent infection or environmental factors are primary or secondary causes of disease. Gill damage can lead to respiratory distress which can cause significant mortality. Currently there is no general cure applicable to all types of GD. In 2012, we experienced a dramatic increase in the prevalence of a particular type of GD called Amoebic Gill Disease, or AGD, in Scotland and Ireland which is caused by a ubiquitous microscopic marine amoebic parasite. AGD was also treated in Norway and the Faroe Islands in 2013 and 2014. There is no vaccine for AGD, but treatment in freshwater or hydrogen peroxide baths, when used systematically and in a coordinated manner, limits the impact of the disease. For the year ended December 31, 2014, AGD was our second most prevalent cause of biomass mortality by number, resulting in a loss of 1,245.3 tonnes of fish (or 911,888 fish in numbers). •Pancreas Disease, or PD, is an infectious viral disease caused by a salmonid alphavirus, or SAV, and is frequently diagnosed in Norway. More recently and to a lesser extent it was also diagnosed in Scotland and Ireland. The disease attacks the pancreatic tissue, heart and skeletal muscles of the fish and results in lack of appetite, lethargy, reduced health and increased mortality. Chronic outbreaks can last several months and accumulated mortality can be high, normally in the range from 0% to 20%. More important is, however, the chronic damage that can occur to the survivors in terms of reduced growth capacity and scars in skeletal muscle. The scars can appear as patches of decolorization or melanization (black pigmentation), cause downgrading and make the product unsuitable for smokehouses. Approved vaccines exist, but the effectiveness is variable when infection prevalence increases. PD is subject to governmental control measures. Norway 20Table of Contentsexperienced a significant increase in PD outbreaks in 2012, mainly resulting from the SAV2 virus, which is one of six known genetic variants of the SAV virus and generally regarded as less pathogenic than other variants. The increased number of diagnoses is a concern for the further spread of the disease in Norway, but the number of PD outbreaks was lower in 2013 than in 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2014, PD was our third most prevalent cause of biomass mortality by number, resulting in a loss of 1,233.4 tonnes (706,473 fish in numbers). •Cardiomyopathy Syndrome, or CMS or heart rupture, is a disease primarily affecting the heart with secondary circulation failure and liver damage. The disease has been observed in Scotland, Ireland and the Faroe Islands, and has been increasingly diagnosed in Norway in the recent years. It is also suspected of being present in Canada. CMS affects farmed salmon in the seawater phase and during transportation to the primary processing plants. Occasionally, mortality may reach 30%, but it is usually much lower. Because the disease normally affects the fish at the end of the production cycle when the fish is ready for harvest, the economic losses can be substantial even though the rate of fish mortality is not high. There is no medical treatment or vaccine available for the disease. For the year ended December 31, 2014, CMS was the fourth most prevalent cause of biomass mortality by number but our most prevalent cause of biomass mortality by biomass lost, resulting in a loss of 2,480.2 tonnes (562,354 fish in numbers). •Infectious Salmon Anemia, or ISA, is an infectious viral disease causing severe anemia for the infected fish. The disease has been reported in Norway, Scotland, Ireland, the Faroe Islands, Canada, the United States and Chile. ISA is subject to strict governmental control measures and will normally prompt compulsory culling of the entire stock and a subsequent fallow period. Suspected farms and farms in the vicinity of an outbreak will be placed under surveillance and subject to strict movement controls. The risk of an outbreak increases strongly with proximity to the source of infection, poor quality smolt and insufficient fallow periods. Vaccines have been developed in recent years, but their effectiveness varies when exposed to severe infection pressure. The infected fish represent no health risk for humans and may in most jurisdictions be sold in the open market if it is without clinical signs of disease and above marketable size, which is approximately 1.2 kilograms. Fish below this size will normally be destroyed. ISA has significant potential adverse consequences for us and the salmon farming industry in general. The serious ISA epidemic hitting Chile in 2007 to 2009 led to the closure of many farms. The disease led to substantial losses in Norway around 1990, and the epidemic on the Faroe Islands from 2000 to 2005 laid the whole industry on the islands fallow for several years. ISA re-emerged in Chile in 2013, but so far there have been outbreaks only at a limited number of sites. In Norway, we have had two ISA outbreaks in 2014. All fish at these sites were harvested, and no additional sites have been diagnosed with ISA.•Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis, or IPN, is an infectious viral disease caused by a Birnavirus found throughout the world in a number of wild fish species both in freshwater and in seawater. IPN is prevalent in Norway, but is also found in Scotland and Chile. The disease is highly contagious, attacks the pancreas and causes swelling, lack of appetite, abnormal swimming and darkening of the skin of the fish. Juveniles and seawater phase smolt are more vulnerable to the disease and mortality could reach 40% in these phases. Outbreaks may necessitate a greater degree of handling resulting in extra stress which may lead to increased mortality in already weakened fish. Surviving fish may develop a persistent lifelong infection. IPN is a significant cause of loss in Norway. Commercial vaccines are available, but the effectiveness of the vaccine is variable under high infection pressure.•Infectious Haematopoietic Necrosis, or IHN, is an infectious viral disease/virus found naturally in wild Pacific salmon. Atlantic salmon are very sensitive to the virus and could be exposed to wild fish infection in the sea. Epidemic outbreaks of IHN have been reported mainly on the Pacific Coast of Canada and the United States, but the virus is also found in continental Europe and Japan. The disease has several similarities with ISA, but is far more contagious. The disease can lead to mortality up to 80%, and mortality is particularly high for young fish. An effective vaccine is available.•Salmonid Rickettsial Septicaemia, or SRS, is caused by Piscirickettsia salmonis, a parasitic intracellular bacterium that causes a fatal septicaemic condition of salmonids. SRS occurs mainly in Chile, but has also been found in Norway, Scotland and Canada. The disease typically leads to mortality between 10% and 30%, but mortality in Chile has, at times, reached up to 90%. Other symptoms are loss of appetite and lethargy. The disease is mainly controlled by vaccination and antibiotics and thus far the industry has been able to manage the disease. However, there is a significant risk of the dependence on antibiotics and risk of SRS becoming resistant towards commonly used drugs. Other diseases include Viral haemorrhagic septicaemia, Bacterial kidney disease, furunculosis, vibrio, Saprolegnia parasitica and others. Today there exist vaccine protections or cures for many of these diseases, but the effectiveness of such treatments still vary. 21Table of ContentsNew diseases could arise and excessive use of antibiotics by the industry could result in bacterial species developing antibiotic resistance and reviving diseases which today are subject to effective control. Exposure to any of these or other diseases may result in downgrading, slower growth rates, increased mortality and increased prevention and treatment costs. None of these diseases are harmful for humans and there is no health risk for the consumer and, typically, infected fish can be sold in the market. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Our salmon may be infected with Kudoa thyrsites parasites, causing soft flesh issues. Our salmon in the past has been and may in the future be infected by the parasite Kudoa thyrsites, or Kudoa, commonly called “soft flesh” syndrome. Kudoa is naturally present in wild fish throughout the world. It is particularly prevalent on the Pacific Coast of Canada and the United States. Kudoa infects salmon’s muscle cells without causing any illness in live fish. Upon harvesting of the infected fish, spores from the parasite spreads through the body of the fish and activates the breakdown of the fish’s flesh, turning it soft and doughy three to ten days after the harvest. Kudoa represents no health risk for the consumer, but it can result in product downgrades, customer claims or discounts. Soft-flesh condition presents a significant challenge to the fish farming industry because it propagates a consumer stigma of farmed fish products. Because Kudoa can be difficult to detect during harvesting and primary processing, the effects of infection are not seen until after the fish has been delivered to the customer and, thus, the economic and reputational impact of Kudoa can be substantial. Even where Kudoa can be detected before the product reaches the customer, the product must be substantially downgraded or discarded, leading to a reduction in the commercial value of the fish. Downgraded fish is generally sold at prices substantially lower than superior quality fish. Our Canadian salmon operations have experienced significant Kudoa challenges during recent years, resulting in substantial product downgrades. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the loss related to Kudoa downgrading and customer claims amounted to NOK 16.9 million, while there were no exceptional cost for claims and discards attributed to Kudoa in 2014. We may experience Kudoa infections in our Canadian or other operations in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, costs and business reputation. Our fish stocks can be depleted by biological factors such as algal blooms, low oxygen levels and fluctuating seawater temperatures. Our salmon farming operations are subject to a number of biological risks which may impact profitability and cash flows through adverse effects on growth, harvest weight, harvest volume, mortality, downgrading percentage and claims from customers. The biological factors that can affect our fish are algal blooms, jelly fish, contaminants, low oxygen levels and fluctuating seawater temperatures. Algae and jelly fish are natural organisms with global prevalence in water environments. Most species of algae and jelly fish are harmless and serve as energy producers at the base of the food chain. Occasionally and when conditions are optimal, algae or jelly fish populations grow rapidly into a bloom and accumulate near the surface of the water. Algae can reduce the available oxygen in the water leading to reduced growth of the fish and in some cases to death from suffocation. Some algae species physically clog the gills leading to impaired gill function and respiratory distress and a few species produce potent fish toxins. Harmful algae represent a particular risk in fish farming because fish in cages cannot swim away as they would do in the wild. Jelly fish may accumulate on the net pens affecting water flow and oxygen levels. Some types of jelly fish can damage skin or gills and cause death. Blooms of algae and jelly fish are largely dependent on local marine, weather and temperature conditions. Algae and jelly fish have, from time to time, led to losses at individual sites, and represent a general threat to any open net cage facility. No uniform response is suitable for all types of algae and jelly fish and fish losses due to harmful algae and jelly fish blooms are difficult to predict and prevent.Our attempts to manage the exposure to biological risk factors and our countermeasures may not be effective. Our inability to control biological risks and costs associated with their prevention and counteractions may have a material adverse effect on our costs and production. Our fish stocks are subject to risks associated with fish escapes and predation. Salmon escapes are most commonly caused by human error, severe weather and structural issues at our production facilities. In addition to affecting our salmon count, escaped farmed salmon may impact wild salmon stocks by genetic 22Table of Contentsinteraction and the risk of transferring disease and may result in negative publicity and penalties or other sanctions from governmental authorities (including, in some cases, criminal charges) which could also affect our licenses. We are also exposed to risks relating to predation and our inability to protect our fish from predators may significantly affect our fish count and adversely impact our results of operation. Our salmon is subject to prey by other animals, such as otters, herons, shags, cormorants, gulls, seals, sea lions and minks, which can affect our salmon count. The risk of predation in some cases results in the need for predator killing. Although killing predators is not a preferred option, it is in some cases the only alternative (e.g., birds may be caught in the protective netting) in order to protect the health and welfare of our fish, to avoid escapes and to protect the infrastructure and in cases of eminent danger to our employees. Increased incidents of interactions with predators increase our operating costs, expose us to liability from regulators and attract negative publicity. Intense production may result in physical deformities, cataracts and other production-related deformities, leading to downgrading and/or loss of biomass as well as to reputational harm. The biological limits for how fast fish can grow have been challenged as the aquaculture industry has intensified its production. Intensive farming methods may cause production-related disorders, in particular relating to physical deformities and cataracts. Research has shown that deformities can be caused by excessively high water temperatures of more than 14 degrees Celsius (57 degrees Fahrenheit) during the fish’s early life in freshwater, too little phosphorous or imbalanced mineral content in the diet, manipulation of light (simulation of daylight) to speed up the rate of growth, acidic water, too much carbon dioxide in the water during the freshwater phase and too rapid growth in the freshwater phase. These may lead to financial losses in the form of reduced growth and health, reduced quality on harvesting and damage to the industry or our reputation. Our fish stocks may be exposed to contaminants such as dioxins, PCB, mycotoxins, pesticides, anti-oxidants, brominated flame retardants, lead, mercury, arsenic and cadmium, leading to product recalls, product liability, negative publicity and government sanctions. Farmed salmon may be exposed to contamination by undesirable substances through raw materials and ingredients in the fish feed, polluted waters, poor processing hygiene and cross contamination during handling. Contamination could occur accidentally or on rare occasions deliberately through malicious product tampering and may affect food safety, fish health and the environment, and reduce the public’s confidence in eating salmon. Potential contaminants include organic contaminants such as dioxins and PCB, mycotoxins, pesticides, anti-oxidants (such as ethoxyquin, BHA and BHT), brominated flame retardants, inorganic contaminants such as lead, mercury, arsenic and cadmium and bacterial contamination. Future accidents that result in product contamination could result in recall of our products, product liability, negative publicity and government sanctions. Our fish may be exposed to oil or petroleum products and other pollutants from open seas resulting in fish mortality and rendering the surviving fish inedible. Fish farming is operated in open net cage systems located in marine environments and is hence exposed to the pollution of open seas. Coastal waterways are subject to traffic by large cargo carriers. This represents an environmental hazard in the form of a potential oil leak or spill. Oil or petroleum products floating into a farm will severely affect the fish’s ability for normal oxygen uptake, increase fish mortality and shed an unpleasant taste on surviving fish, which practically makes the fish inedible. Our concentrated location of farms in certain regions increases the vulnerability in case of oil spills. Oil spills and other pollution from accidents will accordingly affect farming locations adversely and may have a material adverse effect on our harvests.Inclement weather, such as extreme temperature or storms, could hurt our stocks, negatively affect our operations and damage our facilities. The rate at which farmed salmon grows depends in part on weather conditions. Unusually warm or cold temperatures and altered oxygen levels in the sea resulting from annual variations can have a short-term, but significant, negative impact on growth rates and fish feed consumption. In addition, extreme weather in the regions where we operate, such as extreme temperatures, hurricanes, floods or other storms, could cause impairment of the health or growth of our fish or result in fish escape, loss of biomass, fish mortality, lost feeding days, repair costs relating to damage of facilities or interference with our shipping operations and could affect our business due to power outages; fuel shortages; damage to infrastructure from powerful winds, rising water or extreme temperatures; disruption of shipping channels; less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by adverse weather or increased costs of insurance coverage in the aftermath of such events. Any of these factors 23Table of Contentscould materially and adversely affect our operations. We may not be able to recover through insurance all or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from weather events, including those that may be caused by climate change. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from our operations in Chile. Because Chile is prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters due to its proximity to several major fault lines, our Chilean business may be adversely affected by seismic or climatic events or natural disasters. In February 2010, a major earthquake followed by a tsunami struck Chile. In April 2015, a the Calbuco volcano, only 30 kilometers from Puerto Montt, Chile erupted, resulting in evacuations and considerable property damage. The volcano eruption may have a material adverse effect on our operations in Chile. A similar earthquake, tsunami, volcano or any other catastrophic event arising from natural causes may have significant negative consequences for our operations and for the general infrastructure in Chile. Disruptions to our supply chain may impair our ability to bring our products to market. We source and transport our salmon over long distances. These products are often perishable and can only be stored for a limited amount of time. Disruptions to our supply chain due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, government action, environmental incidents or other reasons beyond our control could impair our ability to bring our products to the market (timely or at all). We are exposed to risks relating to biological events or natural phenomena, for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate. Our business operations entail a number of adverse biological risks, including risks relating to sea lice, fish mortality, diseases, predation and other biological risks. As is typical in the industry, we have limited insurance coverage against adverse biological events. For certain biological events, it is currently not possible to obtain insurance coverage at all or at premiums that we consider to be commercially viable. The fish farming insurance industry is characterized by a limited number of providers. Even for insurable biological events, the coverage often involves a significant deductible in the form of an insurance excess or requirements regarding mortality per net cage or site. Coverage may furthermore be dependent on the insurance value of the fish, which may be at positive or negative variance with the book value. There will always be a risk that certain biological events or natural phenomena may occur for which no or only partial insurance coverage is payable.Risks Related to Our Supply of Fish Feed and Our Feed OperationsWe could face higher costs for fish feed as a result of higher prices and reduced availability of the main ingredients used in fish feed production. Fish feed costs accounted for approximately half of our “cost in box” in 2014, and as a result, our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost of fish feed. Cost in box refers to fish feed, other seawater and non-seawater costs of our Farming segment measured per kilogram of salmon packed in a standard box for shipping. The fish feed industry is characterized by three large, global suppliers typically operating under cost plus contracts (which is the case for all of our third party fish feed contracts) and fish feed prices are, accordingly, directly linked to the global markets for the main ingredients in fish feed: fish oil, fish meal, canola oil, soy bean protein and wheat. Increases in the prices of these raw materials will result in an increase in our fish feed costs. Our own feed operation sources feed raw materials in the global market and is therefore subject to the fluctuations in the global markets for feed raw materials. The demand for fish feed is primarily driven by fish farming operations, which in turn depends on the stocking and farmed fish production levels, so increases in farmed fish production levels can lead to feed shortages and increases in fish feed prices (as demand for fish feed would increase demand for its ingredients). We may not be able to pass on increased fish feed costs to our customers. Global inventories, currency fluctuations and seawater temperatures all affect the supply of feed ingredients. Limitations on the availability of certain commodities that are key inputs in fish feed, in particular marine resources such as fish oil, could lead to global shortages of the necessary raw materials. Fish oil and fish meal are produced using wild caught fish such as anchovies. The extensive use of fish oil combined with a growing fish farming industry presents a sustainability challenge for the industry. Natural phenomena and global weather patterns, such as the recurring event El Niño in the Pacific Ocean, could result in a reduction in global access to raw materials for fish feed production. El Niño causes an increase in seawater temperatures in the South East Pacific, particularly along the coasts of Chile and Peru. As warmer oceans alter locations and types of fish stocks, fish catches of species suitable for fishmeal, such as anchovies, may decrease significantly. Other main ingredients such as canola oil, soy bean protein and wheat are subject to unpredictable price changes caused by supply and demand fluctuations, weather, size of harvest, transportation and storage cost, the state of the global and regional 24Table of Contentseconomy, geopolitical situation and the agricultural and other policies of governments throughout the world. As the cost of raw materials for fish feed increases so does the cost of feed itself. Because fish feed constitutes a significant percentage of our overall costs, an increase in the cost of fish feed directly increases our operating costs and could decrease our profit margins. Termination of one or more of our feed contracts on short notice could result in material additional costs to us. As the main feed suppliers normally enter into volume contracts and adapt their production volumes to prevailing supply commitments, there is generally limited excess of fish feed available in the market. If one or more of our feed contracts were to be terminated on short notice prior to their respective expiration dates, we may be forced to find alternative suppliers in the market on short notice, incurring additional costs. A shortage in feed supply may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Production issues in our own feed operations could result in material additional costs to us. We started producing our own fish feed in June 2014, and the plant is expected to supply up to 80% of our Norwegian fish feed requirements by 2016. As feed production is a new business for us, our ability to achieve the expected benefits of this new venture is subject to risks and uncertainties, including those arising from our lack of experience in operating a fish feed production facility. If our feed operations encounter production challenges, including among others, challenges related to contaminated fish feed, labor stoppages, disruptions in the supply chain and environmental and regulatory issues, we may be forced to find alternative suppliers in the market on short notice, incurring additional costs. A shortage in feed supply may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.Reduction in the quality of our fish feed could have a material adverse effect on our production. Fish feed is essential to our fish production as its quality affects the quality and volume of our harvests. Our feed conversion rate, which measures the number of kilograms of fish feed needed to increase a fish’s bodyweight by one kilogram, may increase due to lower quality of ingredients used in the fish feed, an unfavorable mix of ingredients used in the fish feed or other factors beyond our control, including fish biology. Although we actively work internally and with our fish feed suppliers to ensure that our fish feed is tailored to provide the highest fish growth at a low cost without sacrificing product quality, our efforts may not be successful. An increase in the feed conversion ratio and/or reduction in the fish growth rate may have a material adverse effect on our production.Inferior or contaminated fish feed, or other reductions in the quality of our fish feed, could result in product liability or other serious adverse consequences for us. Certain of the marine raw materials to our feed operations, such as fish oil, are relatively costly and can be difficult to source. If these marine raw materials, or non-marine ingredients, become too costly or unavailable, we might be obligated to make rapid changes to our fish feed formulations. This could affect the quality of the pellets and the performance of the feed that we provide to our salmon, which could harm our reputation, and increase the likelihood of product liability claims and product recalls. Changing our fish feed formulations may also increase the risk of contamination of our fish feed by harmful substances. In some cases, the contamination of our feed may result from factors outside our control, such as the negligent or fraudulent practices of one of our suppliers. Although we have implemented risk analysis and screening protocols to prevent the contamination of our feed by harmful substances, if contamination remained undetected, it could cause severe damage to the salmon, potentially causing health issues for the end-consumers, and result in our customers filing product liability claims against us. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Our Industry Our facilities may be the target of sabotage by environmental organizations. Some environmental organizations have stated aims to eradicate salmon farming. The degree of doctrinal belief varies from group to group, and the majority limit themselves to spreading information about fish farming which may or may not be accurate. However, a risk of sabotage (i.e., damage to production facilities with the intention of hurting us financially and/or exposing us to negative media coverage) cannot be ruled out and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. 25Table of ContentsThe farmed salmon industry has been, and may continue to be, subject to negative press, which may adversely affect consumers’ perception of the industry and therefore consumers’ willingness to purchase farmed seafood. Farmed salmon has in some instances been subject to critical journalism from various research communities and NGOs, such as environmental organizations and animal rights groups, which may negatively affect consumer attitudes towards farmed salmon. Such negative consumer attitudes may result in lower demand for our products. This type of publicity has resulted, and may in the future result, in temporary damage to the industry and various perceived health concerns, including the level of organic contaminants and cancer-causing PCB and dioxins in farmed salmon. New perceived health concerns, whether or not substantiated, or food safety issues relating to farmed salmon may arise in the future, which could affect our ability to market our products. Negative press may continue or intensify and such stories may increase in magnitude, resulting in harm to our reputation or lower demand for our products. Risks Related to Our Business We derive nearly all of our revenue from sales of and are heavily dependent on the market for Atlantic salmon. Our business consists primarily of raising and selling Atlantic salmon. Atlantic salmon accounted for 91.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our business is heavily dependent on the market for Atlantic salmon. Consumer preferences often change rapidly and without warning, moving from one trend to another among many products. Shifts in consumer preferences away from Atlantic salmon would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. SEC rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require that, beginning with this annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014, we must include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, this annual report is required to include an auditor’s report on our internal controls. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014, and as discussed in Item 15 “Controls and Procedures”, we concluded there was a material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as defined in SEC rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. We determined that, as of December 31, 2014, we did not maintain effective internal controls over accounting for income taxes. Specifically, we identified deficiencies with respect to the design and implementation of sufficient controls over the calculation of deferred tax. The deficiencies resulted in adjustments to the deferred tax provision and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2014. Additionally, we identified deficiencies with respect to controls of revenues and controls over data and reports supporting manual controls. Specifically, we identified deficiencies with respect to insufficient transaction level controls and the precision of certain detect review controls for revenues. Further, we identified deficiencies with respect to insufficient design of controls over the completeness and accuracy of data and reports used to support manual controls. We have determined that these deficiencies in aggregate constitute a "material weakness" in our internal control over financial reporting.We have already started working on remediating these deficiencies by agreeing to necessary remediating actions with each of our entities. These remediating actions include reassessing key financial reporting risks over the revenue and tax processes, providing further training and follow-up assistance to control operators and further developing and deploying tools and templates to ensure consistency and quality of control performance. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, management may decide to take additional measures to address the material weaknesses or modify the remediation steps described above. Although we plan to complete the remediation process in time to allow for sufficient management testing, at this time, we cannot estimate how long it will take. There can be no assurance that such remediating actions will effectively prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. The presence of ineffective controls or a material misstatement in our consolidated financial statements may have a material adverse effect on investor confidence. 26Table of ContentsWe rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the leadership of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, many regions where we operate are remote areas and the location of our production facilities makes it difficult to attract the necessary employee resources. Also, we may not be able to attract, retain and train the new management personnel we need to continue to develop our operations, or do so at the pace necessary to sustain our growth. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations and our expansion into emerging markets, which may negatively affect our operations. We have fish farming operations in six countries and secondary processing plants in Norway, Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Germany, the Czech Republic, Chile, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, China and South Korea. In addition, in 2014, we sold our products in approximately 70 countries worldwide. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to our international operations, including: •the imposition of or increase in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by countries regarding the importation of fish and fish products, in addition to import or export licensing requirements imposed by various countries;•corruption;•the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between various currencies, particularly the USD, the NOK, the EUR, the GBP and the CAD;•political, social and economic conditions;•difficulties and costs associated in complying with, and enforcement of remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws;•different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments;•differing tax rates and tax regimes; and•distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. Negative consequences relating to these risks and uncertainties could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in one or more of those markets where we currently operate, or where we may seek to operate in the future. We are also subject to economic risks and uncertainties in the countries in which we operate. Any slowdown in the development of these economies, any deterioration or disruption of the economic environment in these countries, or any reduction in private sector spending may have a material adverse effect on our business. Continuing political instability in the Ukraine, sanctions against Russia, and Russia’s response to those sanctions, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In March 2014, the Crimea region of the Ukraine was annexed by Russia. In response to this annexation and subsequent hostilities aimed at the Ukraine, the United States and the European Union imposed sanctions against Russia. In response, Russia announced its own trading sanctions against nations that implemented or supported the Russian sanctions, including the United States and some European Union nations. The Russian response, among others, included a ban on salmon imports from Norway, Ireland, Scotland and North America. In addition, the political instability in the region arising from the crisis in the Ukraine and sanctions, combined with low global oil prices, has resulted in a significant devaluation of the Russian Ruble.As a result of the ban on import of salmon products from certain countries and the sudden reduction in Russian purchasing power due to the depreciation of the Russian Ruble, our sales of seafood to Russia decreased by 37.2% from NOK 909.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2013 to NOK 663.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2014. If the conflict in the region continues to escalate, and the United States, the European Union or Russia impose further sanctions or the Russian 27Table of Contentspurchasing power continues to decrease due to the depreciation of the Russian Ruble, our revenues in Russia may continue to decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.We may be involved in legal disputes. We may from time to time be involved in legal disputes. We could be involved in criminal or civil proceedings related to, among others, product liability, environmental, food safety, anti-competition regulations or anti-bribery regulations or other types of disputes which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. In particular, we are engaged in a legal dispute in Canada with a private citizen over transfer of smolt into one seawater site in which the citizen alleges that the smolt were carrying a disease agent. The final evidence was presented in June 2014 and the judge has up to one year to render a decision. We have only recognized our own legal fees for this case as we consider the probability of loosing the case as remote. We are further engaged in arbitration proceedings against a former director of Marine Harvest Chile and Salmones Sur Austral S.A. over certain contractual benefits and obligations. Salmones Sur Austral S.A. has countersued Marine Harvest for breach of contract and indemnification of damages, which were valued at USD 42 million. In June 2013, we lost the arbitration case and were ordered to pay USD 12.3 million as indemnification for breach of contract. The judgment was appealed, but was upheld by the Supreme Court and is therefore final. The amount was recognized in the accounts in 2013. It has been deposited in the Chilean court's bank, but has not yet been paid. We may also be subject to legal disputes arising from breaches of government regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Legal Proceedings.” We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. We had 11,715 employees as of December 31, 2014, approximately 25-30% of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our operations depend on the availability, retention and relative costs of labor and maintaining satisfactory relations with employees and the labor unions. Labor relations issues may arise from time to time. Failing to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the labor unions may result in labor strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages or other labor disputes. The restructuring of our VAP Europe operations carried out in 2013 and 2014 resulted in a slowdown in production, as well as a strike at our French operations. We depend on a small number of contractors for key industry supplies, such as fish feed and well boats. We depend on major industry suppliers of well boats and fish feed. We rent most of our well boats that we use to transport our fish and, in some cases, harvest the fish. In addition, we purchase the majority of our fish feed requirements from third parties. There are a limited number of key suppliers of these items in our industry. Some of these suppliers may go out of business or discontinue production of the products we require for our operations. Failure to maintain good business relationships with these suppliers may lead to higher prices or an inability to acquire optimal products for our operation. If these suppliers go out of business, fail to deliver the agreed upon amount of products, stop doing business with us or materially increase their prices, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events could cause significant losses for our primary and secondary processing operations. Many of our business activities involve substantial investments in primary and secondary processing facilities and many of our products are produced at a limited number of locations. These facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and tsunamis, or by fire or other unexpected events. We could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity. Some steps of the production process are outside of our control. We purchase seafood as an input in some of our secondary processing activities. In particular, we purchase cod, Alaska pollack, shrimp, plaice, redfish and pangasius (a type of catfish native to Asia) from third parties to be used in our secondary processing operations. We do not control the production process for the seafood we purchase and it may contain bacteria or other foreign elements that are harmful or prohibited under the laws of the countries in which we distribute our product. Failure to identify such foreign elements may result in increased government scrutiny, trade prohibitions, harm to our reputation, remediation costs and negative press. 28Table of ContentsIn addition, we distribute the majority of our products through secondary processors and distributors with the majority of our product branding occurring further down the production chain. As such, we do not control the brand under which our products are sold and may be identified adversely with other companies’ products which do not meet our standards. Also, our customers may choose to purchase salmon from another provider without the end customer being made aware of the change in salmon providers. Accordingly, our reputation may be damaged and we may be unable to build brand loyalty. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Expansions We may not achieve the expected benefits from the acquisition of Acuinova or the contemplated merger with AquaChile. In 2014, we entered into an agreement to purchase all of the assets of Acuinova, a Chilean salmon farming company, representing a capacity to produce approximately 40,000 tonnes of salmon gutted weight equivalent per year, including a hatchery, a smolt facility, 36 seawater licenses and a primary and secondary processing plant. The expectation is that the acquisition will result in various benefits to us, including expansion of our farming and secondary processing capabilities into a, for us, new region. In January 2015, we announced our intention to merge our Chilean operations with the activities of Empresas AquaChile SA, or AquaChile. Upon completion of the merger, we will own 42.8% of the combined entity with an option to increase our shareholding to at least 55% after June 15, 2016. The new, merged entity will be AquaChile and it will be the second largest salmon farming company in the world, measured by volume, after Marine Harvest. The parties have agreed that the business combination will be executed in a way such as to maximize both companies' competitive advantages and expertise, in order to run sustainable salmon farming operations with a focus on enhancing complementary areas of competence and experience.Some of the benefits of these transactions may not be achieved or, if achieved, may not be achieved in the time frame in which they are expected. Also, any benefits may not outweigh the management and personnel resources which will need to be diverted from our operations to achieve those benefits. Whether we will actually realize anticipated benefits depends on future events and circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. Also, the potential synergies we currently anticipate may not be realized.As a result of these transactions, we will also have increased exposure to Chile and the Chilean salmon industry. Future growth in revenues, earnings and cash flow will be partly dependent on future economic conditions and conditions in the Chilean salmon industry. Any volatility in Chile, including volatility arising from an economic downturn, political or regulatory instability or another significant negative event, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition or cash flow. Furthermore, upon completion of the merger, we will own less than a majority of AquaChile, and therefore, we cannot exercise complete control over AquaChile. The other shareholders of AquaChile may have economic, business or legal interests that are inconsistent with our own. From time to time, we may be unable to implement strategies or pursue projects due to our ownership interest in AquaChile. If we are unable to achieve the expected benefits of our acquisition of Acuinova or our merger with AquaChile, due to, among other things, our inability to achieve the expected benefits of the transactions, volatility in Chile or the Chilean salmon industry or our ownership interest in AquaChile, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. If we are unable to effectively integrate the business and operations of Morpol and VAP Europe into Consumer Products, it could disrupt our operations and force us to incur unanticipated costs. In June 2014, we announced the launch of the segment Consumer Products, which is the new combined Business Unit of Morpol and VAP Europe. Achieving the anticipated benefits from the combined entity depends in part on our ability to integrate the culture and operations of the two former entities in an effective and efficient manner. The process of integrating the operations is expected to take time and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. Our failure to do so may result in a significant diversion of management’s time from on-going business matters and may have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operation and financial condition of the combined company. We would be adversely affected if we expand our business through acquisitions or greenfield projects but fail to successfully integrate them or run them efficiently or retain the associated fish farming licenses. We regularly evaluate expansion opportunities such as acquiring other businesses or building new processing plants, fish farming operations or fish feed plants. Significant expansion involves risks such as additional debt incurred to finance the acquisition or expansion and risks relating to integrating the acquired business or new plant or farm into our operations and 29Table of Contentsattracting and retaining customers. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses or newly formed operations, expansion may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. In many jurisdictions there are consents or other regulatory requirements to be met when there is a change in ownership in a company holding fish farming licenses. When making acquisitions we run the risk of being denied the necessary consents from governmental bodies. Developments related to antitrust investigations by government regulators could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in Norway and internationally, including those relating to competition (antitrust). If we are found to have violated the competition laws in a jurisdiction, we may be fined, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation.On July 23, 2014, we were advised that the European Commission had decided to impose a fine on us in the amount of EUR 20 million as a consequence of an alleged breach of the provisions of the European Merger Control Rules. We decided to appeal the European Commission decision and the appeal has been filed with the EU General Court. A provision in the amount of EUR 20 million has been made. Risks Related to Our Financing Arrangements If we are unable to access capital, we may be unable to grow or implement our strategy as designed. Salmon farming and seafood processing are capital intensive industries. As the production cycle from eggs to finished products takes approximately three years, substantial working capital is required both in a steady state and in particular when increasing production. Our future development and growth may be dependent on access to external capital in the form of debt and/or equity capital. A lack of access to such capital or material changes in the terms and conditions relating to our external financing could limit our future growth and strategy.We are highly leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility. We have significant indebtedness outstanding including a EUR 555 million syndicated borrowing facility, EUR 725 million principal amount of convertible bonds (of which EUR 348 million of the EUR 350 million convertible bonds due 2018 was converted to shares through a voluntary incentive payment offer in March 2015) and NOK 1,250 million principal amount of unsecured bonds. We may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness and may not be able to do so on attractive terms or at all. We may incur additional debt in the future, subject to limitations under our credit facilities and bond terms. The covenants in our credit facility require, among other things, that our equity ratio must be above 35% at all times. The degree to which we are leveraged could also have important consequences to ADS holders, including:•limiting our ability to obtain additional funding for future capital expenditures, working capital requirements, debt service requirements, acquisitions, joint ventures and other general corporate purposes;•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures and other general corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;•increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in economic conditions generally;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt;•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; and•limiting our ability to pay dividends.30Table of ContentsFor further information about our financing arrangements, see note 11 to our financial statements included in this annual report. Fluctuations in value of our derivatives used to hedge our exposure to salmon prices may adversely impact our operating results. Our business is exposed to fluctuating salmon prices, and we use derivative financial instruments to reduce such exposure. We hold certain positions in salmon derivatives that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. These positions are marked to fair value and realized and unrealized gains and losses are reported in profit. In addition, although these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from a favorable trend in salmon prices. We also hedge our exposure to salmon prices through short to medium contracts for physical delivery of salmon. Such contracts can adversely affect our profitability when spot prices are increasing. Fluctuations in value of our currency exchange rates may adversely impact our operating results. We are also exposed to changes in currency exchange rates as a part of our business operations. Our reporting currency is NOK, our financing currencies are EUR, USD, NOK and GBP, and our revenues are primarily denominated in EUR, USD, GBP and JPY. Our main currency exposure is accordingly to EUR, USD, GBP and JPY. Although we seek to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in these currencies, such hedging arrangements may not be effective. Failure to adequately hedge our exposure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.We are subject to fluctuations in interest rates due to the prevalence of floating interest rates in our debt. With the exception of the EUR 725 million principal amount convertible bonds, we are generally financed using floating interest rates. Our hedges (interest rate swaps) against interest rate fluctuations in our main financing currencies (EUR, USD and GBP) related to our interest-bearing debt, may be ineffective in protecting us from the effects of interest rate increases. If our customers fail to fulfill their contractual responsibilities, we may suffer losses. We are exposed to the risk of losses if one or more contractual partners do not meet their obligations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to recover losses from trade receivables from the credit insurance companies or that our credit evaluations of trading partners will be effective. Risks Related to Climate Change Significant physical effects of climatic change, if they should occur, have the potential to damage fish farming facilities, disrupt production activities and could cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels and temperatures of the seawater and availability of fish feed raw materials. If any such effects were to occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or on our suppliers. Climatic change rules and regulations, if enacted, could increase the costs of operating our facilities or transporting our product. Climate change and its association with the emission of greenhouse gases are receiving increased attention from the scientific and political communities. Certain countries and regions have adopted or are considering legislation or regulation imposing overall caps or taxes on greenhouse gas emissions from certain sectors or facility categories or mandating the increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources. These actions could increase the costs of operating our businesses and our transportation costs. Risks Related to Our ADSs We are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. 31Table of ContentsWe are a foreign private issuer, as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. As a result, for so long as we remain a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. We are permitted to follow the practice of companies incorporated in Norway and listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange, or OSE, in lieu of the provisions of the NYSE’s corporate governance rules, except that: •we are required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act;•we are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by U.S. domestic companies under NYSE listing standards;•our chief executive officer is obligated to promptly notify the NYSE in writing after any of our executive officers becomes aware of any non-compliance with any applicable provisions of the NYSE corporate governance rules; and•we must submit an executed written affirmation annually to the NYSE. In addition, we must submit an interim written affirmation as and when required by the interim written affirmation form specified by the NYSE.The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers with shares listed on the NYSE. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NYSE we intend to rely on certain exemptions, including: •to not have a compensation committee or corporate governance committee of our board of directors as of the date of this annual report; and•to use an alternate definition of director independence than that recognized by the NYSE. As a result, holders of our ADSs will not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, which may affect the market price for our shares. Our ADSs cannot be traded on any exchange outside the United States. Our ADSs are listed only in the United States on the NYSE and we have no plans to list our ADSs in any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our ADSs outside the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our ADSs as readily as the holder would if our securities were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction. Future sales of ADSs or ordinary shares by existing shareholders could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If our existing significant shareholder who as of March 31, 2015 controlled over 26.5% of Marine Harvest, sells, or indicates an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the market the trading price of our ADSs could decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sale of these ADSs or ordinary shares or the availability of these ADSs or ordinary shares for sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. ADS holders have no legal interest in the underlying ordinary shares. ADS holders acquire the beneficial, and not the legal, interest in the underlying ordinary shares, which the depositary holds in trust for them, under the terms of the deposit agreement. The intended effect of the trust is to ring-fence the ordinary shares in the hands of the depositary by conferring a property interest on ADS holders as beneficiaries. The interest of the ADS holders as beneficiaries in trust assets, which are the ordinary shares, is indirect, in the sense that in the normal course they do not have any direct recourse to the ordinary shares nor do they have any direct right of action against us. ADSs may be subject to transfer limitations. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. The depositary however, may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. 32Table of ContentsBecause U.S. investors may be unable to participate in future rights offerings, their percentage shareholding may be diluted. Except in limited circumstances, shareholders in Norwegian public limited liability companies have preemptive rights proportionate to the aggregate amount of the shares they hold with respect to new shares issued by the company. For reasons relating to U.S. securities laws or other factors, U.S. investors may not be able to participate in a new issuance of our ordinary shares or other securities and may face dilution as a result. You can find a further description of the preemptive rights of shareholders of Norwegian public companies under “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Additional Issuances and Preferential Rights.” The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Norwegian securities markets may adversely affect the liquidity and market prices of the ordinary shares and the ADSs. The Norwegian equity market is smaller and less liquid than the major U.S. and some other EU securities markets. The OSE is significantly less liquid than the NYSE or other major exchanges in the world. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate market capitalization of the OSE was equivalent to approximately NOK 1,957 billion (approximately USD 262 billion). In contrast, as of December 31, 2014, the aggregate market capitalization of the NYSE was approximately USD 20,208 billion. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Norwegian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the units or ADSs at the time and price you desire (or at all) and, as a result, could adversely impact the market price of these securities. Our ADS holders’ ability to bring an action against us may be limited under Norwegian law. We are a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Norway. The rights of holders of ordinary shares underlying ADSs are governed by Norwegian law and by our articles of association. These rights differ from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, Norwegian law limits the circumstances under which shareholders of Norwegian companies may bring derivative actions. Under Norwegian law, any action brought by us in respect of wrongful acts committed against us takes priority over actions brought by shareholders in respect of such acts. In addition, it may be difficult for our ADS holders to prevail in a claim against us under, or to enforce liabilities predicated upon, U.S. securities laws. Judgments of Norwegian courts with respect to the ADSs may be payable only in Norwegian krone. If proceedings are brought in a Norwegian court seeking to enforce the rights of holders of the ADSs, any judgment made in favor of such holders, even if the judgment is on an obligation deemed to be denominated in USD, could be made or awarded in Norwegian krone based on the exchange rate in effect at the time the judgment is entered. The prevailing party in such proceeding would therefore bear exchange rate risk until the judgment could be collected. By purchasing ADSs, holders will irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of state or federal courts in New York, New York in connection with any legal suit, action or proceeding relating to the deposit agreement or the ADSs. By purchasing ADSs or an interest therein, holders of ADSs irrevocably agree that any legal suit, action or proceeding against or involving us or the ADR depositary, arising out of or based upon the deposit agreement or the ADSs, may only be instituted in a state or federal court in New York, New York, and by purchasing ADSs or an interest therein, holders irrevocably waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such proceeding. We have agreed to indemnify the ADR depositary and its agents under certain circumstances.Neither the ADR depositary nor any of its agents will be liable for indirect, special, punitive or consequential damages. Neither the ADR depositary nor any of its agents will be liable to holders or beneficial owners of ADSs or interests in ADSs for any indirect, special, punitive or consequential damages (including, without limitation, lost profits) of any form incurred by any person or entity, whether or not foreseeable and regardless of the type of action in which such a claim may be brought. 33Table of ContentsHolders of the ADSs may experience losses due to increased volatility in the U.S. capital markets. The U.S. capital markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations as a result of the global economic and financial crisis and its aftermath that have affected, and continue to affect, the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or results of operations of those companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, as well as volatility in international capital markets, may cause the market price of shares of the ADSs to decline. In addition, on August 5, 2011, S&P lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating of U.S. government debt obligations from AAA to AA+. On August 8, 2011, S&P also downgraded the long-term credit ratings of U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. These actions initially have had an adverse effect on capital markets in the United States and elsewhere, contributing to volatility and decreases in prices of many securities trading on the U.S. national exchanges. Other ratings agencies may, in the short or long-term, also lower the sovereign credit rating of the United States or of other sovereigns. Any volatility in the capital markets in the United States or elsewhere, whether resulting from a downgrade of the sovereign credit rating of U.S. debt obligations or otherwise, may have an adverse effect on the price of the ADSs. Exchange rate volatility may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and the dividends payable to ADS holders. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Norwegian krone and the USD. Unforeseen events in international markets, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in capital flows, political developments or inflation rates may cause exchange rate instability that could, in turn, depress the value of the NOK, thereby decreasing the USD value of the ADSs and any dividends or distributions paid on the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs. Risks Related to Tax Matters We are exposed to potentially adverse changes in the tax regimes of each jurisdiction in which we operate. We have operations in 23 countries around the world, and any of these countries could modify its tax laws in ways that would adversely affect us. Most of our operations are subject to changes in tax regimes in a similar manner as other companies in our industry. Significant changes in the tax regimes of countries in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operation.