Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have been separated into the following groups: Risks Related to Our Business, Risks Related to Our Manager, and Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Risks Related to Our Business We depend to a great extent on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that we serve, and we are also susceptible to general economic downturns, which have had, and could continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our advertising and circulation revenues and on our profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues, depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general and the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community we serve experiences a downturn, our publications, revenues and profitability in that market could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy, like the economic downturn recently experienced, that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and other publications and related websites are primarily retail businesses that can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. Continuing or deepening softness in the U.S. economy could also significantly affect key advertising revenue categories, such as help wanted, real estate and automotive. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate may negatively affect our business. Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. Adverse changes may occur as a result of weak global economic conditions, rising oil prices, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions in general. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase costs associated with publishing and distributing our publications. Our ability to generate revenues is correlated with the economic conditions of two geographic regions of the United States. Our Company primarily generates revenue in two geographic regions: the Northeast and the Midwest. During the year ended December 29, 2013, approximately 36% of our total revenues (and those of our Predecessor) were generated in two states in the Northeast: Massachusetts and New York. During the same period, approximately 34% of our total revenues were generated in two states in the Midwest: Illinois and Ohio. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results, including advertising and circulation revenue, depend largely upon economic conditions in these principal market areas. Accordingly, adverse economic developments within these two regions in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. Our indebtedness and any future indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs or dividends. As of December 29, 2013, GateHouse’s outstanding indebtedness included the First Lien Credit Facility (as defined below) consisting of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $75 million and a revolving credit 41 Table of Contents facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $40 million (of which $25 million was funded on November 26, 2013) and a Second Lien Credit Facility (as defined below) consisting of a term loan in the aggregate principal amount of $50 million. Additionally, Local Media Parent entered into the Local Media Credit Facility, which consists of a $33 million senior secured term loan, which was funded on September 3, 2013, and a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $10 million, whose full availability was activated on October 25, 2013. This indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could: • require us to dedicate a portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes, including dividends or other distributions; • subject us to increased sensitivity to increases in prevailing interest rates; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with relatively less debt in economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; or • reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions. In addition, our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, general corporate and other purposes, which would have a material effect on our business and financial condition. Our liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control. The Local Media Credit Facility and GateHouse Credit Facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenues and pay dividends to our stockholders. The Local Media Credit Facility and GateHouse Credit Facilities contain various restrictions, covenants and representations and warranties. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants or breach these representations or warranties in any material respect, such noncompliance would constitute a default under the Local Media Credit Facility and GateHouse Credit Facilities, as applicable (subject to applicable cure periods), and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements related thereto to be immediately due and payable and enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements. The covenants and restrictions in the Local Media Credit Facility and GateHouse Credit Facilities generally restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • transfer or sell assets; • make distributions on common stock; • create or incur liens; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. The restrictions described above may interfere with our ability to obtain new or additional financing or may affect the manner in which we structure such new or additional financing or engage in other business activities, which may significantly limit or harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A default and any resulting acceleration of obligations could also result in an event of default and declaration of acceleration under our other existing debt agreements. Such an acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. A default could also significantly limit our 42 Table of Contents alternatives to refinance both the debt under which the default occurred and other indebtedness. This limitation may significantly restrict our financing options during times of either market distress or our financial distress, which are precisely the times when having financing options is most important. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to fund our operations, pay dividends or repay our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness as required depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot provide assurance that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timeliness and amount of proceeds realized from those sales, that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or that additional financing would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Furthermore, our ability to refinance would depend upon the condition of the finance and credit markets. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, would materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with our announced intent or at all. We have announced our intent to pay a substantial portion of our free cash flow as a dividend to our stockholders, subject to satisfactory financial performance and approval by our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors’ determinations regarding dividends will depend on a variety of factors, including the Company’s GAAP net income, free cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. Our ability to declare future dividends will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our ability to generate free cash flow depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, capital expenditures or debt servicing requirements. Our Predecessor suspended the payments of dividends commencing with the second quarter of 2008. We own substantially all of our Predecessor’s assets, and our Predecessor experienced revenue and cash flow declines in the past. In addition, we may acquire additional companies with declining cash flow as part of a strategy aimed at stabilizing cash flow through expense reduction and digital expansion. If our strategy is not successful, we may not be able to pay dividends. As a holding company, we are also dependent on our subsidiaries being able to pay dividends to us. Our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the ability to pay dividends under the various instruments governing their indebtedness. If our subsidiaries incur additional debt or losses, such additional indebtedness or loss may further impair their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, our ability to pay dividends will be substantially affected by the ability of our subsidiaries to provide cash to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends to us will also be dependent on their cash income and cash available and may be restricted under applicable law or regulation. Under Delaware law, approval of the Board of Directors is required to approve any dividend, which may only be paid out of surplus or net profit for the applicable fiscal year. We may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with our announced intent or at all. 43 Table of Contents The collectability of accounts receivable under adverse economic conditions could deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in our financial statements and in our projections of future results. Adverse economic conditions in the United States have increased our exposure to losses resulting from financial distress, insolvency and the potential bankruptcy of our advertising customers. Our accounts receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value and our allowance for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including receivable agings, significant individual credit risk accounts and historical experience. If such collectability estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur. Our Predecessor experienced declines in its credit ratings, and filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain new financing to fund our operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance our existing debt at attractive rates. During 2008, GateHouse’s credit rating was downgraded to below investment grade by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. GateHouse’s credit rating was further downgraded in 2009 and 2010. Furthermore, on September 27, 2013, GateHouse filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (and emerged from Chapter 11 protection on November 26, 2013). These downgrades and events may negatively affect our cost of financing and subject us to more restrictive covenants than those that might otherwise apply. As a result, our financing options may be limited. Any future downgrades in our credit ratings could further increase our borrowing costs, subject us to more onerous terms and reduce or eliminate our borrowing flexibility in the future. Such limitations on our financing options may adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt and incur new debt to fund our operations and strategic initiatives. If there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. The basic raw material for our publications is newsprint. We generally maintain only a 45 to 55-day inventory of newsprint, although our participation in a newsprint-buying consortium has helped ensure adequate supply. An inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint at a favorable price or at all in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our publications. Historically, the price of newsprint has been volatile, reaching a high of approximately $823 per metric ton in 2008 and experiencing a low of almost $410 per metric ton in 2002. The average price of newsprint for 2013 was approximately $643 per metric ton. Recent and future consolidation of major newsprint suppliers may adversely affect price competition among suppliers. Significant increases in newsprint costs for properties and periods not covered by our newsprint vendor agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Predecessor experienced declines in advertising revenue, and further declines, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, may occur. Our Predecessor experienced declines in advertising revenue over the past few years, due primarily to the economic recession and advertisers’ shift from print to digital media. Advertising revenue decreased by $26.2 million, or 7.4%, in the year ended December 30, 2012, as compared to the year ended January 1, 2012. Advertising revenue decreased by $29.6 million, or 9.0%, in the year ended December 29, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 30, 2012 for total company excluding Local Media (“GateHouse Standalone”). We continue to search for organic growth opportunities, including in our digital advertising business, and for ways to stabilize print revenue declines through new product launches and pricing. However, there can be no assurance that our advertising revenue will not continue to decline. Further declines in advertising revenue could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with a large number of companies in the local media industry; if we are unable to compete effectively, our advertising and circulation revenues may decline. Our business is concentrated in newspapers and other print publications located primarily in small and midsize markets in the United States. Our revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. 44 Table of Contents Competition for advertising revenues and paid circulation comes from direct mail, directories, radio, television, outdoor advertising, other newspaper publications, the internet and other media. For example, as the use of the internet and mobile devices has increased, we have lost some classified advertising and subscribers to online advertising businesses. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the publication and its price and editorial quality. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market and many of our competitors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. We may incur increased costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. We may also experience a decline of circulation or print advertising revenue due to alternative media, such as the internet. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline. We are undertaking strategic process upgrades that could have a material adverse financial impact if unsuccessful. We are implementing strategic process upgrades of our business. Among other things we are implementing the standardization and centralization of systems and processes, the outsourcing of certain financial processes and the use of new software for our circulation, advertising and editorial systems. As a result of ongoing strategic evaluation and analysis, we have made and will continue to make changes that, if unsuccessful, could have a material adverse financial impact. We have invested in growing our digital business, but such investments may not be successful, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continue to evaluate our business and how we intend to grow our digital business. Internal resources and effort are put towards this business and key partnerships have been entered into to assist with our digital business. We continue to believe that our digital businesses offer opportunities for revenue growth to support and, in some cases, offset the revenue trends we have seen in our print business. There can be no assurances that the partnerships we have entered into or the internal strategy being employed will result in generating or increasing digital revenues in amounts necessary to stabilize or offset trends in print revenues. In addition, we have a limited history of operations in this area and there can be no assurances that past performance will be indicative of future performance or future trends. If our digital strategy is not as successful as we anticipate, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain and grow our digital audience and advertiser base, our digital businesses will be adversely affected. Given the ever-growing and rapidly changing number of digital media options available on the internet, we may not be able to increase our online traffic sufficiently and retain or grow a base of frequent visitors to our websites and applications on mobile devices. Accordingly, we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital businesses and to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our websites. In addition, the ever-growing and rapidly changing number of digital media options available on the internet may lead to technologies and alternatives that we are not able to offer or about which we are not able to advise. Such circumstances could directly and adversely affect the availability, applicability, marketability and profitability of the suite of SMB services and the private ad exchange we offer as a significant part of our digital business. Technological developments and any changes we make to our business strategy may require significant capital investments. Such investments may be restricted by our current or future credit facilities. 45 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations, which affects our revenues and operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we expect to continue to be reflected in our operating results in future periods. Our first fiscal quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is at its lowest levels following the December holiday season. Correspondingly, our second and fourth fiscal quarters tend to be our strongest because they include heavy holiday and seasonal advertising. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenues and operating results may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, distribution costs, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors. We could be adversely affected by declining circulation. Overall daily newspaper circulation, including national and urban newspapers, has declined in recent years. For the year ended December 30, 2012, our Predecessor’s circulation revenue decreased by $0.3 million, or 0.2%, as compared to the year ended January 1, 2012. There can be no assurance that our circulation revenue will not decline again in the future. Our Predecessor has been able to maintain its annual circulation revenue from existing operations in recent years through, among other things, increases in per copy prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase prices to offset any declines in circulation. Further declines in circulation could impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices, cause purchasers of advertising in our publications to reduce or discontinue those purchases and discourage potential new advertising customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay a dividend. The increasing popularity of digital media could also adversely affect circulation of our newspapers, which may decrease circulation revenue and cause more marked declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in offsetting such declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. Our Predecessor had a history of losses and we may not be able to maintain profitable operations in the future. Our Predecessor experienced losses from continuing operations of approximately $27.5 million and $21.0 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our results of operations in the future will depend on many factors, including our ability to execute our business strategy and realize efficiencies through our clustering strategy. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock and our ability to pay dividends and raise additional capital for growth. The value of our intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results. As a result of the Restructuring, which was considered a triggering event for the non-amortizable intangibles, our Predecessor performed a valuation analysis to determine if an impairment existed as of September 29, 2013. The fair values of our Predecessor’s reporting units for goodwill and newspaper mastheads were estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows, recent industry transaction multiples and using estimates, judgments and assumptions that their management believed were appropriate in the circumstances and were consistent with the terms of the Plan. The estimates and judgments used in the assessment included multiples for revenue and EBITDA, the weighted average cost of capital and the terminal growth rate. Given the Restructuring, our Predecessor determined that discounted cash flows provided the best estimate of the fair value of its reporting units. The estimated fair value of the Large Daily reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and Step 2 of the analysis was not necessary. The Small Community reporting unit failed the Step 1 goodwill impairment analysis. Our Predecessor performed Step 2 of the analysis using consistent assumptions, as discussed above, and determined an impairment was not present for this reporting unit. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit’s mastheads exceeded their carrying values, using consistent assumptions as discussed above. The masthead fair value was estimated using the relief from royalty valuation method. For further information on goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 8 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. 46 Table of Contents Due to reductions in our Predecessor’s operating projections during the third quarter in conjunction with the Restructuring, an impairment charge of $68.6 million was recognized for advertiser relationships within the Predecessor’s Metro and Small Community reporting units, an impairment charge of $19.1 million was recognized for subscriber relationships within the Company’s Metro and Small Community reporting units, an impairment charge of $2.1 million was recognized for customer relationships within the Company’s Metro reporting unit and an impairment charge of $1.8 million was recognized for trade names and publication rights within the Directories business unit. Refer to Note 19 “Fair Value Measurement” for additional information on the impairment charge. For further information on our Predecessor’s impairment charge and its effect on the Company financial statements, see Note 19 “Fair Value Measurement” to the consolidated financial statements. The newspaper industry and more specifically, our Predecessor have experienced declining same store revenue and profitability in the past. Should general economic, market or business conditions decline, and have a negative impact on estimates of future cash flow and market transaction multiples, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. At December 29, 2013 the carrying value of our goodwill is $125.9 million, mastheads is $45.9 million, and amortizable intangible assets is $99.6 million. We are subject to environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, storage tanks and the management and disposal of wastes at our facilities. Under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Such laws often impose liability on the owner or operator without regard to fault and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup can be substantial. Although in connection with certain of our Predecessor’s acquisitions we have rights to indemnification for certain environmental liabilities, these rights may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all losses that we might incur if a property acquired by us has environmental contamination. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those pertaining to occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. Environmental and employee safety and health laws tend to be complex, comprehensive and frequently changing. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigations related to environmental and employee safety and health issues. These proceedings and investigations could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our real property. Furthermore, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or if our properties are contaminated, it could result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of the operations of specific printing facilities. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Sustained increases in costs of employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. Moreover, our pension plan obligations are currently underfunded, and we may have to make significant cash contributions to our plans, which could reduce the cash available for our business. In recent years, our Predecessor experienced significant increases in the cost of employee medical benefits because of economic factors beyond its control, including increases in health care costs. At least some of these factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. 47 Table of Contents Our pension and postretirement plans were underfunded by $10.2 million at December 29, 2013. Our pension plan invests in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the disruptions in the credit and capital markets in 2009 and 2010. Future volatility and disruption in the stock markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine minimum funding requirements could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional pension contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our businesses. We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies and, if we lose intellectual property protection, our assets may lose value. Our business depends on our intellectual property, including, but not limited to, our titles, mastheads, content and services, which we attempt to protect through patents, copyrights, trade laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We believe our proprietary and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our content, services and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to procure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer. If we must litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of third parties, such litigation may be costly and divert the attention of our management from day-to-day operations. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate or grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our management and other key personnel and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. Although our Predecessor entered into employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require our remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate or grow our business. A shortage of skilled or experienced employees in the media industry, or our inability to retain such employees, could pose a risk to achieving improved productivity and reducing costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Production and distribution of our various publications requires skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations which could adversely affect our results of operations. A number of our employees are unionized, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if current or additional labor negotiations or contracts were to further restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. As of December 29, 2013, we employed approximately 5,576 employees, of whom approximately 784 (or approximately 14.1%) were represented by 27 unions. 90% of the unionized employees are in three states: Massachusetts, Illinois and Ohio and represent 24%, 41% and 25% of all our union employees, respectively. Most of our unionized employees work under collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2014. 48 Table of Contents Although our newspapers have not experienced a union strike in the recent past nor do we anticipate a union strike to occur, we cannot preclude the possibility that a strike may occur at one or more of our newspapers at some point in the future. We believe that, in the event of a newspaper strike, we would be able to continue to publish and deliver to subscribers, which is critical to retaining advertising and circulation revenues, although there can be no assurance of this. Our potential inability to successfully execute cost control measures could result in greater than expected total operating costs. We and our Predecessor have implemented general cost control measures, and we expect to continue such cost control efforts in the future. If we do not achieve expected savings as a result of such measures or if our operating costs increase as a result of our growth strategy, our total operating costs may be greater than expected. In addition, reductions in staff and employee benefits could affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the synergies between GateHouse and Local Media or potential future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the synergies between GateHouse and Local Media or potential future acquisitions of assets or companies will depend, in part, on our ability to scale-up to appropriately integrate the businesses of Local Media and GateHouse and other such acquired companies with our business. The process of acquiring assets or companies may disrupt our business and may not result in the full benefits expected. Additionally, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, valuations of potential acquisitions may rise materially, making it economically unfeasible to complete identified acquisitions. The risks associated with integrating the operations of GateHouse and Local Media and potential future acquisitions include, among others: • uncoordinated market functions; • unanticipated issues in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • the incurrence of indebtedness and the assumption of liabilities; • the incurrence of significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • unanticipated adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • not retaining key employees, vendors, service providers, readers and customers of the acquired businesses; and • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with integrating the operations of GateHouse and Local Media or potential future acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. Moreover, the success of any acquisition will depend upon our ability to effectively integrate the acquired assets or businesses. The acquired assets or businesses may not contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent, and cost savings and synergies we expect at the time of an acquisition may not be realized once the acquisition has been completed. Furthermore, if we incur 49 Table of Contents indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that indebtedness. Unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends. Our financial results were affected by the adoption of fresh start reporting and may not reflect historical trends. Pursuant to the Plan, we acquired substantially all of the assets of our Predecessor. The Restructuring resulted in us becoming a new reporting entity and adopting fresh start accounting. As required by fresh start accounting, our Predecessor’s assets and liabilities were adjusted to measured value, and we recognized certain assets and liabilities not previously recognized in our Predecessor’s financial statements. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the Effective Date are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our Predecessor’s historical consolidated financial statements, including those presented herein. We cannot be certain that the Restructuring will not adversely affect our operations going forward. We cannot provide assurance that the Restructuring will not adversely affect our future operations. Our suppliers and vendors could stop providing supplies or services to us or provide such supplies or services only on unfavorable terms such as “cash on delivery,” “cash on order” or other terms that could have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flows. In addition, the Restructuring may adversely affect our ability to retain existing readers and advertisers, attract new readers and advertisers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations. Risks Related to Our Manager We are dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our Manager terminates the Management Agreement. We are externally managed by our Manager. Our Manager does not have any prior experience directly managing our Company or media-related assets. We are completely reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies, to conduct our business. We are subject to the risk that our Manager will terminate the Management Agreement and that we will not be able to find a suitable replacement for our Manager in a timely manner, at a reasonable cost or at all. Furthermore, we are dependent on the services of certain key employees of our Manager whose compensation is partially or entirely dependent upon the amount of incentive or management compensation earned by our Manager and whose continued service is not guaranteed, and the loss of such services could adversely affect our operations. There may be conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager, including with respect to corporate opportunities. We have entered into a Management Agreement with an affiliate of Fortress pursuant to which our management team will not be required to exclusively dedicate their services to us and will provide services for other entities affiliated with our Manager. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that if Fortress or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of Fortress acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person’s capacity as a 50 Table of Contents director or officer of the Company and such person acts in good faith, then to the fullest extent permitted by law such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person’s fiduciary duties owed to us and is not liable to us if Fortress, or its affiliates, pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if such person did not present the corporate opportunity to us. The ability of our Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities, subject to the terms of our Management Agreement with our Manager, may reduce the amount of time our Manager, its officers or other employees spend managing us. In addition, we may engage in material transactions with our Manager or another entity managed by our Manager or one of its affiliates that present an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including causing an inability to raise additional funds, a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us, a decrease in the prices of our equity securities and a resulting increased risk of litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. The management compensation structure that we have agreed to with our Manager, as well as compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our Manager in the future (in connection with new lines of business or other activities), may have unintended consequences for us. We have agreed to pay our Manager a management fee that is not tied to our performance. The management fee may not sufficiently incentivize our Manager to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for us. In addition, our Manager may be eligible to receive incentive compensation, which may incentivize our Manager to invest in high risk investments. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of such measures at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative than lower-yielding investments. Moreover, because our Manager receives compensation in the form of options in connection with the completion of our common equity offerings, our Manager may be incentivized to cause us to issue additional Common Stock, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. See “Description of Our Capital Stock—Corporate Opportunity.” We may compete with affiliates of our Manager, which could adversely affect our and their results of operations. Affiliates of our Manager are not restricted in any manner from competing with us. Affiliates of our Manager may decide to invest in the same types of assets that we invest in. See “—Risks Related to Our Manager—There may be conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager, including with respect to corporate opportunities.” It would be difficult and costly to terminate our Management Agreement with our Manager. It would be difficult and costly for us to terminate our Management Agreement with our Manager. The Management Agreement may only be terminated annually upon (i) the reasonable affirmative vote of a majority of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a simple majority of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, that there has been unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) a determination by a simple majority of our independent directors that the management fee payable to our Manager is not fair, subject to our Manager’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of fees. Our Manager will be provided 60 days’ prior notice of any termination and will be paid a termination fee equal to the amount of the management fee earned by the Manager during the twelve month period preceding such termination. In addition, following any termination of the Management Agreement, our Manager may require us to purchase its right to receive incentive compensation at a 51 Table of Contents price determined as if our assets were sold for their fair market value (as determined by an appraisal, taking into account, among other things, the expected future value of the underlying investments) or otherwise we may continue to pay the incentive compensation to our Manager. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the Management Agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our Manager without cause. In addition, our independent directors may not vigorously enforce the provisions of our Management Agreement against our Manager. For example, our independent directors may refrain from terminating our Manager because doing so could result in the loss of key personnel. Furthermore, we are dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our Manager terminates the Management Agreement. Our Manager will not be liable to us for any acts or omissions performed in accordance with the Management Agreement, including with respect to the performance of our investments. Pursuant to our Management Agreement, our Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and will not be responsible for any action of our Board in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager, its members, managers, officers and employees will not be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries, to our Board, or our or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for any acts or omissions by our Manager, its members, managers, officers or employees, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our Manager’s duties under our Management Agreement. We shall, to the full extent lawful, reimburse, indemnify and hold our Manager, its members, managers, officers and employees and each other person, if any, controlling our Manager harmless of and from any and all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature whatsoever (including attorneys’ fees) in respect of or arising from any acts or omissions of an indemnified party made in good faith in the performance of our Manager’s duties under our Management Agreement and not constituting such indemnified party’s bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our Manager’s duties under our Management Agreement. Our Manager’s due diligence of business opportunities or other transactions may not identify all pertinent risks, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our Manager intends to conduct due diligence with respect to each business opportunity or other transaction it pursues. It is possible, however, that our Manager’s due diligence processes will not uncover all relevant facts, particularly with respect to any assets we acquire from third parties. In these cases, our Manager may be given limited access to information about the business opportunity and will rely on information provided by the target of the business opportunity. In addition, if business opportunities are scarce, the process for selecting bidders is competitive, or the timeframe in which we are required to complete diligence is short, our ability to conduct a due diligence investigation may be limited, and we would be required to make business decisions based upon a less thorough diligence process than would otherwise be the case. Accordingly, business opportunities and other transactions that initially appear to be viable may prove not to be over time, due to the limitations of the due diligence process or other factors. Risks Related to our Common Stock There can be no assurance that the market for our stock will provide you with adequate liquidity. A “when-issued” trading market for New Media’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange began on February 4, 2014 and “regular-way” trading of New Media’s Common Stock began on February 14, 2014. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include, without limitation: • our business profile and market capitalization may not fit the investment objectives of any stockholder; • a shift in our investor base; 52 Table of Contents • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant investments, acquisitions or dispositions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our Common Stock after the Distribution; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Sales or issuances of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Stockholders that received shares of our Common Stock in the spin-off may sell our Common Stock because our business profile or market capitalization as an independent company does not fit their investment objectives or because our Common Stock is not included in certain indices after the Distribution. The issuance of our common stock in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions or the settlement of awards that may be granted under our Incentive Plan or otherwise could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us by, for example, leading to a decline in our share price and impairing our ability to raise capital, if and when desirable. The percentage ownership of existing shareholders in New Media may be diluted in the future. We may issue equity in order to raise capital or in connection with future acquisitions and strategic investments, which would dilute investors’ percentage ownership in New Media. In addition, your percentage ownership may be diluted if we issue equity instruments such as debt and equity financing. 53 Table of Contents The percentage ownership of existing shareholders in New Media may also be diluted in the future as result of the issuance of ordinary shares in New Media upon the exercise of 10-year warrants, collectively representing the right to acquire, in the aggregate, equity equal to 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of New Media (the “New Media Warrants”). The New Media Warrants collectively represent the right to acquire New Media Common Stock, which in the aggregate are equal to 5% of New Media Common Stock as of the Effective Date (calculated prior to dilution from shares of New Media Common Stock issued pursuant to Newcastle’s contribution of Local Media Parent and assignment of related stock purchase agreement to New Media (the “Local Media Contribution”)) at a strike price of $46.35 calculated based on a total equity value of New Media prior to the Local Media Contribution of $1.2 billion as of the Effective Date. As a result, New Media Common Stock may be subject to dilution upon the exercise of such New Media Warrants. Furthermore, the percentage ownership in New Media may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our Manager pursuant to our Management Agreement. Upon the successful completion of an offering of shares of our Common Stock or any shares of preferred stock, we will grant our Manager options equal to 10% of the number of shares being sold in the offering (excluding the shares issued to Newcastle in the Local Media Contribution), with an exercise price equal to the offering price per share paid by the public or other ultimate purchaser. The board of directors of New Media approved a Nonqualified Stock Option and Incentive Award Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) which provides for the grant of equity and equity-based awards, including restricted stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, restricted stock units, tandem awards and other equity-based and non-equity based awards, in each case to our Manager, to the directors, officers, employees, service providers, consultants and advisors of our Manager who perform services for us, and to our directors, officers, employees, service providers, consultants and advisors. Any future grant would cause further dilution. We have initially reserved 15 million shares of our Common Stock for issuance under the Incentive Plan; on the first day of each fiscal year beginning during the ten-year term of the Incentive Plan and in and after calendar year 2015, that number will be increased by a number of shares of our Common Stock equal to 10% of the number of shares of our Common Stock newly issued by us during the immediately preceding fiscal year (and, in the case of fiscal year 2014, after the effective date of the Incentive Plan). Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • amendment of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors, the filling of director vacancies and the resignation and removal of directors only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the then issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon (provided, however, that for so long as Newcastle and certain other affiliates of Fortress and permitted transferees (collectively, the “Fortress Stockholders”) beneficially own at least 20% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock, such provisions may be amended with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote or by a majority of the entire Board of Directors); • amendment of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding corporate opportunity only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the then issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon; • removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote in the election of directors (provided, however, that for so long 54 Table of Contents as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 20% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock, directors may be removed with or without cause with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote); • our Board to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preferred stock and to issue such preferred stock without stockholder approval; • provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws prevent stockholders from calling special meetings of our stockholders (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 20% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock, Fortress Stockholders may call special meetings of our stockholders); • advance notice requirements applicable to stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; • a prohibition, in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, stating that no holder of shares of our Common Stock will have cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, which means that the holders of majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our Common Stock can elect all the directors standing for election; and • action by our stockholders outside a meeting, in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, only by unanimous written consent (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 20% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock, our stockholders may act without a meeting by written consent of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote). Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is considered favorable to stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or a change in our management and Board and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 