Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below and all of the other information contained in this report before, deciding to invest in our units, common stock and warrants. If any of the events or developments described below occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses focused on the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. If we fail to complete a business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. The financial statements included in this Annual Report do not take into account the consequences to the Company of a failure to complete an initial business combination by December 9, 2014. The financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the Notes to the Company’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company will cease all operations, except for the purpose of winding up, redeem all public shares outstanding and dissolve and liquidate in the event that the Company does not consummate an initial business combination by December 9, 2014. The possibility of an initial business combination not being consummated raises some doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern and the financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our public stockholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed business combination, unless such vote is required by law or Nasdaq, which means we may consummate our initial business combination even though a majority of our public stockholders do not support such a combination. We may not hold a stockholder vote to approve our initial business combination unless the business combination would require stockholder approval under applicable state law or the rules of Nasdaq or if we decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other reasons. For instance, the Nasdaq rules currently allow us to engage in a tender offer in lieu of a stockholder meeting but would still require us to obtain stockholder approval if we were seeking to issue more than 20% of our outstanding shares to a target business as consideration in any business combination. Therefore, if we were structuring a business combination that required us to issue more than 20% of our outstanding shares, we would seek stockholder approval of such business combination. However, except for as required by law, the decision as to whether we will seek stockholder approval of a proposed business combination or will allow stockholders to sell their shares to us in a tender offer will be made by us, solely in our discretion, and will be based on a variety of factors, such as the timing of the transaction and whether the terms of the transaction would otherwise require us to seek stockholder approval. Accordingly, we may consummate our initial business combination even if holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock do not approve of the business combination we consummate. 21 If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote in favor of such initial business combination, regardless of how our public stockholders vote. Unlike many other blank check companies in which the founders agree to vote their founder shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the public stockholders in connection with an initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote their founder shares and placement shares, as well as any public shares held by them, in favor of our initial business combination. Our initial stockholders own shares equal to 29.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (which includes 1,150,000 placement shares). Accordingly, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, it is more likely that the necessary stockholder approval will be received than would be the case if our initial stockholders agreed to vote their founder shares and placement shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by our public stockholders. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your shares from us for cash, unless we seek stockholder approval of the business combination. At the time of your investment in us, you will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Since our board of directors may consummate a business combination without seeking stockholder approval, public stockholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on the business combination, unless we seek such stockholder vote. Accordingly, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time (which will be at least 20 business days) set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our public stockholders in which we describe our business combination. The ability of our public stockholders to redeem their shares for cash may make our financial condition unattractive to potential business combination targets, which may make it difficult for us to enter into a business combination with a target. We may enter into a transaction agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition that we have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. If too many public stockholders exercise their redemption rights, we may not be able to meet such closing condition, and as a result, would not be able to proceed with the business combination. Furthermore, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to provide all of our stockholders with an opportunity to redeem all of their shares in connection with the consummation of any initial business combination, although each of our initial stockholders and initial holder has agreed to waive its respective redemption rights with respect to the founder shares and, placement shares, (i) in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination, (ii) if we fail to consummate our initial business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions), (iii) in connection with an expired or unwithdrawn tender offer, and (iv) upon our liquidation prior to the expiration of the 16 month (or extended) period. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. Prospective targets would be aware of these risks and, thus, may be reluctant to enter into a business combination transaction with us. 22 The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. In connection with the consummation of our business combination, we may redeem up to that number of shares of common stock that would permit us to maintain net tangible assets of $5,000,001. If our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, the redemption threshold may be further limited. Alternatively, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. If the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to the target or its stockholders to make up for the failure to satisfy a minimum cash requirement. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. The requirement that we maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash could increase the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful and that you would have to wait for liquidation in order to redeem your stock. If, pursuant to the terms of our proposed business combination, we are required to maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash in trust in order to consummate the business combination and regardless of whether we proceed with redemptions under the tender or proxy rules, the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful is increased. If our business combination is unsuccessful, you would not receive your pro rata portion of the trust account until we liquidate or you are able to sell your stock in the open market. If you were to attempt to sell your stock in the open market at such time our stock may trade at a discount to the pro rata amount in our trust account. In either situation, you may suffer a material loss on your investment or lose the benefit of funds expected in connection with our redemption until we liquidate. The requirement that we complete a business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions) may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination and may decrease our ability to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to consummate a business combination on terms that would produce value for our stockholders. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware that we must consummate a business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions). Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the timeframe described above. In addition, we may have limited time to conduct due diligence and may enter into a business combination on terms that we might have rejected upon a more comprehensive investigation. 23 We may not be able to consummate a business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions), in which case we would cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up and we would redeem our public shares and liquidate. Our initial stockholders, officers and directors have agreed that we must complete our initial business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions). We may not be able to find a suitable target business and consummate a business combination within such time period. If we have not consummated a business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions), or earlier, at the discretion of our board pursuant to the expiration of a tender offer conducted in connection with a failed business combination, we will: (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem all public shares then outstanding at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account, less any interest released to us for working capital purposes, the payment of taxes or dissolution expenses (although we expect all or substantially all of such interest to be used for working capital purposes), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders’ rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Our sponsor or its affiliates or designees may be unable or unwilling to expend the funds needed to extend our ability to consummate an initial business combination beyond 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering. We have 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering to consummate our initial business combination. However, if we anticipate that we may not be able to consummate our initial business combination within 16 months, we may extend the period of time to consummate a business combination twice, each by an additional four months, for an aggregate of eight additional months. In order to extend the time available for us to consummate our initial business combination, our sponsor, or its affiliates or designees, is required to deposit an aggregate of $1.125 million (or approximately $0.065 per public share) for each four month extension into the trust account prior to the applicable deadline. In return, they would receive 112,500 placement units ($10.00 per unit), on the same terms as in the private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of our Public Offering. An aggregate of 225,000 placement units could be issued in connection with the two extensions. Neither our sponsor, nor any of its affiliates or designees, is obligated to purchase such units in order to allow us to extend the time for us to complete our initial business combination. If we have not yet consummated an initial business combination and our sponsor, its affiliates or designees are either unable or unwilling to expend the funds described above in order to extend beyond our 16 month window, we would be forced to distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption and cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up of our affairs. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame, our warrants will expire worthless. Our outstanding warrants may not be exercised until after the completion of our initial business combination and are not entitled to participate in the redemption of the shares of our common stock conducted in connection with the consummation of our business combination, our warrants will expire worthless if we are unable to consummate a business combination within the 16 month time period (or up to 24 months in case of extensions), or earlier if our board resolves to liquidate and dissolve in connection with a failed business combination. 24 If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination, we, our initial stockholders, directors, officers, advisors and their affiliates may elect to purchase shares of common stock from public stockholders, in which case we or they may influence a vote in favor of a proposed business combination that you do not support. If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may enter into privately negotiated transactions to purchase public shares following consummation of the business combination from stockholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules. Our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their affiliates may also purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions either prior to or following the consummation of our initial business combination. Neither we nor our directors, officers, advisors or their affiliates will make any such purchases when we or they are in possession of any material non-public information not disclosed to the seller. Such a purchase would include a contractual acknowledgement that such stockholder, although still the record holder of our shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that we or our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public stockholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. Although neither we nor any of our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their respective affiliates currently anticipate paying any premium purchase price for such public shares, in the event we or they do, the payment of a premium may not be in the best interest of those stockholders not receiving any such additional consideration. In addition, the payment of a premium by us after the consummation of our initial business combination may not be in the best interest of the remaining stockholders who do not redeem their shares. Such stockholders will experience a reduction in book value per share compared to the value received by stockholders that have their shares purchased by us at a premium. The purpose of such purchases would be to: (i) increase the likelihood of obtaining stockholder approval of the business combination or (ii), where the purchases are made by our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their affiliates, to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash at the closing of the business combination, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of a business combination that may not otherwise have been possible. Our purchases of common stock in privately negotiated transactions would reduce the funds available to us after the business combination. If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase shares effective immediately following the consummation of the business combination from stockholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules with proceeds released to us from the trust account immediately following consummation of the initial business combination. As a consequence of such purchases, the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business combination. Purchases of common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions by us or our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their affiliates may make it difficult for us to continue to list our common stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange. If we or our initial stockholders, directors, officers or their affiliates purchase shares of our common stock in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, it would reduce the public “float” of our common stock and the number of beneficial holders of our common stock, which may make it difficult to maintain the listing or trading of our common stock on a national securities exchange if we determine to apply for such listing in connection with the business combination. Although we do not expect to make any purchases that would cause us to become non-compliant with Nasdaq’s continued listing rules, if the number of our public holders falls below 300 or if the total number of shares held by non-affiliates is less than 500,000, we will be non-compliant with Nasdaq’s continued listing rules and our common stock would be de-listed. 25 Our purchases of common stock in privately negotiated transactions may have negative economic effects on our remaining public stockholders. If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from stockholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules for a per-share pro rata portion of the trust account, our remaining public stockholders will bear the economic burden of the franchise and income taxes payable. In addition, our remaining public stockholders following the consummation of a business combination will bear the economic burden of the deferred underwriting discount as well as the amount of any premium we may pay to the per-share pro rata portion of the trust account using funds released to us from the trust account following the consummation of the business combination. This is because the stockholders from whom we purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions may receive a per share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of the franchise and income taxes or the deferred underwriting discount and, in the case of purchases at a premium, have received such premium. However, we will not make any such purchase if the effect thereof would reduce the amount in the trust account available to redeeming stockholders to less than $10.26 per share. You will not have any rights to or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of: (i) the consummation of our initial business combination; (ii) the expiration or termination of any tender offer conducted by us in connection with a proposed business combination not otherwise withdrawn; (iii) the redemption of our public shares if we are unable to consummate a business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions), subject to applicable law; or (iv) otherwise upon our liquidation or in the event our board of directors resolves to liquidate the trust account and ceases to pursue the consummation of a business combination prior to the expiration of the 16 month (or extended) period (our board of directors may determine to liquidate the trust account prior to such expiration if it determines, in its business judgment, that it is improbable within the remaining time to identify an attractive business combination or satisfy regulatory and other business and legal requirements to consummate a business combination). In addition, if our plan to redeem our public shares if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination within 16 months (or up to 24 months in case of extensions) from the date of our Public Offering is not consummated for any reason, compliance with Delaware law may require that we submit a plan of dissolution to our then-existing stockholders for approval prior to the distribution of the proceeds held in our trust account. In that case, public stockholders may be forced to wait beyond 16 months (or up to 24 months in case of extensions) before they receive funds from our trust account. In no other circumstances will a public stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. Accordingly, to liquidate your investment, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of many other blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our Public Offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we are deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because we have net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419 under the Securities Act. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us, unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. 26 If we seek stockholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, and if you or a “group” of stockholders are deemed to hold an aggregate of 20.0% or more of our common stock issued in the Public Offering, you will lose the ability to redeem all such shares in the aggregate of 20.0% or more of our common stock issued in the Public Offering. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to an aggregate of 20.0% or more of the shares sold in our Public Offering. We refer to such shares aggregating 20.0% or more of the shares sold in the offering as “Excess Shares”. Your inability to redeem any Excess Shares will reduce your influence over our ability to consummate a business combination and you could suffer a material loss on your investment in us if you sell Excess Shares in open market transactions. Additionally, you will not receive redemption distributions with respect to the Excess Shares if we consummate our business combination. And as a result, you will continue to hold that number of shares aggregating 20.0% or more and, in order to dispose of such shares, would be required to sell your stock in open market transactions, potentially at a loss. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our Public Offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. If the net proceeds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the amounts representing interest income earned on the trust account we are entitled to withdraw are insufficient to allow us to operate for the next 16 to 24 months, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. The funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus any amounts representing interest income earned on the trust account we are entitled to withdraw, may not be sufficient to allow us to operate for the next 16 to 24 months, assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account as of December 31, 2013, plus the amounts we are entitled to withdraw for operating expenses will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 16 to 24 months; however, we cannot assure you of this. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we are unable to fund such down payments or “no shop” provisions, our ability to close a contemplated transaction could be impaired. Furthermore, if we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. 27 The current low interest rate environment could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we will depend, in part, on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our franchise and income taxes and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our Public Offering, only $741,632 (as of December 31, 2013) remains available to fund our working capital requirements. We may be dependent on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any franchise and income taxes that we may owe. The current interest rate environment may make it more difficult for us to generate sufficient interest from the proceeds in the trust account to structure, negotiate or close our initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor, our initial stockholders or management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. None of our sponsor, our initial stockholders or our management team is under any obligation to advance funds to us in such circumstances. Subsequent to our consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than approximately $10.26 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, our management will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if management believes that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. If we do not obtain a waiver from a third party, we will obtain the written consent of Quinpario Partners LLC before our entering into an agreement with such third party. 28 Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver and where Quinpario Partners LLC executes a written consent. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we are unable to complete a business combination within the required time frame, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with a business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the 10 years following redemption. Accordingly, the per-share redemption amount received by public stockholders could be less than the approximately $10.26 per share initially held in the trust account, due to claims of such creditors. Pursuant to a written agreement, Quinpario Partners LLC and Jeffry N. Quinn have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amounts in the trust account to below $10.26 per share except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our Public Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, Quinpario Partners LLC and Jeffry N. Quinn will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. However, we have not asked Quinpario Partners LLC and Jeffry N. Quinn to reserve for such indemnification obligations and we cannot assure you that Quinpario Partners LLC or Jeffry N. Quinn would be able to satisfy those obligations. Our directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of Quinpario Partners LLC, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $10.26 per public share and Quinpario Partners LLC asserts that it is unable to satisfy its obligations or that it has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against Quinpario Partners LLC to enforce their indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against Quinpario Partners LLC to enforce their indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $10.26 per share. If, after we distribute the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, a bankruptcy court may seek to recover such proceeds, and the members of our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing the members of our board of directors and us to claims of punitive damages. If, after we distribute the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. 29 If, before distributing the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the claims of creditors in such proceeding may have priority over the claims of our stockholders and the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. If, before distributing the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. The proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trustee only in United States government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in United States Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act. Because the investment of the proceeds will be restricted to these instruments, we believe we will meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted funds and may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 30 Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them upon redemption of their shares. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. The pro rata portion of our trust account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination within 16 months (or up to 24 months in case of extensions) from the consummation of our Public Offering may be considered a liquidation distribution under Delaware law. If a corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the DGCL intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to redeem our public shares as soon as reasonably possible following our 16th month (or 24th month in case of extensions) in the event we do not consummate an initial business combination and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, Section 281(b) of the DGCL requires us to adopt a plan, based on facts known to us at such time that will provide for our payment of all existing and pending claims or claims that may be potentially brought against us within the 10 years following our dissolution. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or prospective target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the DGCL, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would likely be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such date. Furthermore, if the pro rata portion of our trust account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination within 16 months from the consummation of our Public Offering (or up to 24 months in case of extensions) is not considered a liquidation distribution under Delaware law and such redemption distribution is deemed to be unlawful, then pursuant to Section 174 of the DGCL, the statute of limitations for claims of creditors could then be six years after the unlawful redemption distribution, instead of three years, as in the case of a liquidation distribution. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after our consummation of a business combination and you will not be entitled to any of the corporate protections provided by such a meeting. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we consummate a business combination, and thus may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the DGCL, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors in accordance with a company’s bylaws unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of a business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the DGCL. 31 We did not register the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and such registration may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. We did not register the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. However, under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to file a registration statement under the Securities Act covering such shares and maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, and to use our best efforts to take such action as is necessary to register or qualify for sale, in those states in which the warrants were initially offered by us, the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants, to the extent an exemption is not available. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not registered under the Securities Act, we will be required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, under certain circumstances specified in the warrant agreement. However, no warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and we will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the issuance of the shares upon such exercise is registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder, unless an exemption is available. In no event will we be required to issue cash, securities or other compensation in exchange for the warrants in the event that we are unable to register or qualify the shares underlying the warrants under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws. If the issuance of the shares upon exercise of the warrants is not so registered or qualified, the holder of such warrant shall not be entitled to exercise such warrant and such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying shares of common stock for sale under all applicable state securities laws. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders and initial holder may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into concurrently with the closing of our Public Offering, our initial stockholders, initial holder and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the founder shares, placement units, placement shares and placement warrants, and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the placement warrants, as well as the extension units and their component securities, as the case may be. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the founder shares, the placement units, placement shares and the placement warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such placement warrants as well as the extension units and their component securities, as the case may be, at any time commencing upon the date that such shares are released from transfer restrictions. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If such persons exercise their registration rights in full, there will be an additional 7,283,333 shares of common stock (assuming no extension) and up to 1,150,000 shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the placement warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our initial stockholders are registered. 32 Because we have not selected a particular business within the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries, or any other industry or any specific target businesses with which to pursue a business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. We will seek to consummate a business combination with an operating company in the United States in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries, but may also pursue acquisition opportunities in other business sectors or geographic regions, except that we will not, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, be permitted to effectuate a business combination with another blank check company or similar company with nominal operations. To the extent we consummate our initial business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the entity with which we combine. For example, if we combine with an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by the risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or a development stage entity. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in an acquisition target. We may seek investment opportunities in sectors outside of our industry focus (which may or may not be outside of our management’s area of expertise). Although we currently intend to consummate a business combination in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries, we will consider a business combination outside these industries if a business combination candidate is presented to us and we determine that such candidate offers an attractive investment opportunity for our company. In the event we elect to pursue an investment outside of the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries, our management’s expertise related to that industry would not be directly applicable to its evaluation or operation, and the information contained herein regarding the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries might not be relevant to an understanding of the business that we elect to acquire. Although we identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into a business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines. Although we have identified specific criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into a business combination will not have all of these positive attributes. If we consummate a business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. In addition, if we announce a prospective business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if stockholder approval of the transaction is required by law or Nasdaq, or we decide to obtain stockholder approval for business or other reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain stockholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. 33 We are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm, and consequently, you may have no assurance from an independent source that the price we are paying for the target in our initial business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. Unless we consummate our initial business combination with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the price we are paying is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value based on standards generally accepted by the financial community. Such standards used will be disclosed in our tender offer documents or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination. We may issue additional common or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination, which would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 43,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our Public Offering, there were 66,667 (assuming that no extension event has occurred and no extension units have been either issued or founders shares forfeited as a result) authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance and not reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: · may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our Public Offering; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; · could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, common stock and/or warrants. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we decide not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, if we reach an agreement relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If such business combination is not consummated, these purchases would have the effect of reducing the funds available in the trust account for future business combinations. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. 34 We are dependent upon our officers and directors and their loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, our officers and directors. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our officers and directors, at least until we have consummated a business combination. In addition, our officers and directors are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence, and these conflicts of interest that may not be resolved in our favor. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our directors or officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our directors or officers could have a detrimental effect on us. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with our initial business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will remain in senior management or advisory positions with us. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination. We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect our initial business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. When evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’ management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we expected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. 35 The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon consummation of a business combination. The loss of an acquisition target’s key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of an acquisition candidate’s key personnel upon the consummation of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate’s management team will remain associated with us following our initial business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. The loss of an acquisition target’s key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and the search for a business combination on the one hand and their other businesses on the other hand. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of our business combination. Each of our executive officers is engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. Our independent directors also serve as officers and board members for other entities. If our executive officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs which may have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our business combination. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Following the completion of our Public Offering and until we consummate our initial business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more businesses. Our executive officers and directors may in the future become, affiliated with entities that are engaged in a similar business. Certain of our directors serve as officers and board members for other entities. As a result, our directors may compete with us for attractive opportunities for business combinations. In each case, our directors’ existing directorships or other responsibilities may give rise to contractual or fiduciary obligations that take priority over any obligation owed to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will provide that the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any other analogous doctrine, will not apply against us or any of our officers or directors or in circumstances that would conflict with any fiduciary duties or contractual obligations they may have as of the date of this Annual Report. Accordingly, business opportunities that may be attractive to the entities described above will not be presented to us unless such entities have declined to accept such opportunities. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor or that a potential target business would not be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary or financial interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. In fact, we may enter into a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our initial stockholders or with one or more of our directors or officers, although we do not currently intend to do so, and we do not have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours. 36 We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing stockholders which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our initial stockholders, officers and directors with other entities, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our initial stockholders, officers and directors. Our officers and directors also serve as officers and board members for other entities. Such entities may compete with us for business combination opportunities. Our initial stockholders, officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities for us to consummate a business combination with any entities with which they are affiliated, and there have been no preliminary discussions concerning a business combination with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination and such transaction was approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more domestic or international businesses affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing holders of our securities, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. We may partner, submit a joint bid or enter into a similar transaction with our initial stockholders or an affiliate in connection with our pursuit of, or in connection with, a business combination. We are not prohibited from partnering, submitting a joint bid or entering into any similar transaction with our initial stockholders or an affiliate of our initial stockholders in our pursuit of a business combination. Although we currently have no plans to partner with our initial stockholders or an affiliate of our initial stockholders, we could pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination and such transaction was approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with our initial stockholders or an affiliate of our initial stockholders, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. Additionally, were we successful in consummating such a transaction with our initial stockholders or an affiliate of our initial stockholders, conflicts could invariably arise from our initial stockholders’, or an affiliate of our initial stockholders’ interest in maximizing returns to its members or limited partners, which may be at odds with the strategy of the post-business combination company or not in the best interests of the public stockholders of the post-business combination company. Any or all of such conflicts could materially reduce the value of your investment, whether before or after our initial business combination. Since our initial stockholders and initial holder will lose some or all of their investment in us if a business combination is not consummated and certain of our officers and directors have significant financial interests in us, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for our initial business combination. Our initial stockholders currently own 6,208,333 shares of our common stock, and our sponsor owns 1,150,000 placement units and up to 225,000 extension units in the event of extensions on the same terms as the placement units, which will also be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of certain of our officers and directors, directly or as members of our sponsor, in consummating an initial business combination, along with their flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate, may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business combination and completing an initial business combination that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. Consequently, the discretion of our officers and directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target business combination may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular initial business combination are appropriate and in the best interest of our public stockholders. 37 We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders’ investment in us. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Annual Report to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt, contemporaneous with, in connection with and in order to complete, our initial business combination. The incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; · our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; · using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and · limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We do not have a maximum debt leverage ratio or a policy with respect to how much debt we may incur. To the extent that the amount of our debt increases, the impact of the negative effects listed above may also increase. 38 We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds from our IPO and Private Placement, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may negatively impact our operations and profitability. As of December 31, 2013, we had $171,922,040 in our trust account (including interest earned thereon as of such date but less $5,175,000 of deferred underwriting compensation) that we may use to complete a business combination. We may effectuate an initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously. However, we may not be able to effectuate a business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset, or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. We may attempt to simultaneously consummate business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to consummate an initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may attempt to consummate our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we expected, if at all. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we expected, if at all. Furthermore, the relative lack of information about a private company may hinder our ability to properly assess the value of such a company in relation to public company comparables, in which case we may pay too much to acquire a private company in our initial business combination. 39 If we effect our initial business combination with a business located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect an initial business combination with a business located outside of the United States. If we do, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with businesses operating in the target’s home jurisdiction, including any of the following: · Rules, laws and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · currency fluctuations and exchange controls; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; · employment regulations; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we are unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect our initial business combination with a business located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such business will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect our initial business combination with a business located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such business operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. The target business may not be able to enforce any of its material agreements or enforce remedies for breaches of those agreements in that jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a business located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. 40 If a business we acquire exports products to foreign countries, and we are unable to maintain required licenses, we may be prevented from exporting our products, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to obtain export licenses to the extent we develop or manufacture products in certain countries. We may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining the licenses and other authorizations required to export our products from applicable governmental authorities. Our failure to obtain or maintain any required export license or authorization could hinder our ability to sell our products, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business combination. We cannot provide assurance that, upon loss of control of a target business, new management will possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to profitably operate such business. We may structure a business combination to acquire less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but we intend to only consummate such business combination if we (or any entity that is a successor to us in a business combination) acquire a majority of the outstanding voting securities or assets of the target, with the objective of making sure that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act based on the fact that less than 40% of our assets will be defined as investment securities under the provisions of that statute. Even though we will own a majority interest in the target, our stockholders prior to our initial business combination may collectively own a minority interest in the post business combination company, depending on valuations ascribed to the target and to us in the business combination transaction. For example, we could pursue a transaction in which we issue a substantial number of new shares of common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding capital stock of a target. In this case, we would acquire a 100% interest in the target. However, as a result of the issuance of a substantial number of new shares of common stock, our stockholders immediately prior to such transaction could own less than a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock subsequent to such transaction. In addition, other minority stockholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company’s stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that we will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. Unlike many blank check companies, we do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which a substantial number of our stockholders do not agree. Since we have no specified percentage threshold for redemption in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our structure is different in this respect from the structure that has been used by many blank check companies. Many blank check companies would not be able to consummate a business combination if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business combination and elected to redeem or convert more than a specified percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold has typically been between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business combinations because the amount of shares voted by their public stockholders electing conversion exceeded the maximum conversion threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with a business combination. However, we may be able to consummate a business combination even though a substantial number of our public stockholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, if have entered into privately negotiated agreements with public stockholders to sell their shares to us or our initial stockholders, officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates. However, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Furthermore, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of our initial business combination. In such case, we would not proceed with the redemption of our public shares and the related initial business combination, and instead may search for an alternate business combination. 41 The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in many similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in many similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $12.00 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. In order to effectuate a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or governing instruments in a manner that will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination that our stockholders may not support. In order to effectuate a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of initial business combination, increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our charter or governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business combination. However, if the effect of the proposed amendments, if adopted, would be either to (i) reduce the amount in the trust account available to redeeming stockholders to less than $10.26 per share, or (ii) delay the date on which a stockholder could otherwise redeem shares for the per share amount in the trust account, we will provide that, if such amendments are approved by holders owning at least 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, dissenting public stockholders will have the right to redeem their public shares as set forth herein. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that relate to our pre-business combination activity (and corresponding provisions of the agreement governing the release of funds from our trust account) may be amended with the approval of holders owning 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, which is a lower amendment threshold than that of many blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to facilitate the consummation of an initial business combination that our stockholders may not support. Many blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business combination activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s stockholders. Amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public stockholders in many cases. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that provisions related to pre-business combination activity may be amended if approved by holders owning 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, and corresponding provisions of the trust agreement governing the release of funds from our trust account may be amended if approved by holders owning 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock; provided, however, that if the effect of any proposed amendment, if adopted, would be either to (i) reduce the amount in the trust account available to redeeming stockholders to less than $10.26 per share, or (ii) delay the date on which a public stockholder could otherwise redeem shares for such per share amount in the trust account, we will provide a right for dissenting public shareholders to redeem public shares if such an amendment is approved. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily that many blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate a business combination with which you do not agree. 42 We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption. We believe that the net proceeds held in the trust account (excluding the deferred underwriting discount of approximately $5.175 million) will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination. If that amount proves to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect redemption in connection with our initial business combination or the terms of negotiated transactions to purchase shares in connection with our initial business combination, we may be required to seek additional financing or to abandon the proposed business combination. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The current economic environment has made it especially difficult for companies to obtain acquisition financing. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular initial business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive approximately $10.26 per share on our redemption. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our initial stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support. Upon consummation of our Public Offering, our initial stockholders owned shares equal to 29.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (which includes 1,150,000 placement shares). Our sponsor purchased 1,150,000 placement shares contained within the placement units, in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the consummation of our Public Offering, and may purchase up to an additional 225,000 extension shares contained within the extension units in the event of up to two extensions. Accordingly, our initial stockholders may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support, including amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If we or our initial stockholders purchase any shares of common stock in the aftermarket or in privately negotiated transactions, this would increase their control. Neither our initial stockholders nor, to our knowledge, any of our officers or directors, has any current intention to purchase additional securities, other than as disclosed in this Annual Report. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors, whose members were elected by our sponsor, is and will be divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, you should anticipate that our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. 43 We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants are issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants (excluding any placement warrants held by our sponsor or its permitted transferees) at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price (or the closing bid price of our common stock in the event the shares of our common stock are not traded on any specific trading day) of the common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to the date we send proper notice of such redemption, provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current Annual Report relating to them is available. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you: (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. Our warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 17,250,000 shares of common stock as part of the public units in our Public Offering. In addition, we sold 1,150,000 placement units to our sponsor, with each unit consisting of one placement share and a placement warrant to purchase one share of common stock, and we may issue up to 225,000 extension warrants to our sponsor or its designees in the event of up to two extensions. If our sponsor or one of its affiliates or certain of our officers and directors makes any loans to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination up to $750,000 of those loans may be convertible into up to an additional 1,000,000 warrants (at $0.75 per warrant) of the post-business combination entity having the same terms as the placement warrants at the option of the lender. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. The placement warrants and extension warrants (and any warrants to be issued to our sponsor or its affiliates upon its conversion of up to $750,000 in working capital loans) are or would be identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in our Public Offering except that, so long as they are held by the initial holder or its permitted transferees, (a) they will not be redeemable by us, (b) they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the holders until 30 days after the consummation of our initial business combination and (c) they may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis. 44 A market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. An active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. In addition, the price of our securities can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market for such securities can be established or sustained. Nasdaq may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities may not continue to be listed on Nasdaq in the future. In order to continue listing our securities on Nasdaq prior to a business combination, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders’ equity (generally $2,500,000), a minimum number of public stockholders (300 public holders), and a minimum number of shares held by non-affiliates (500,000 shares). Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that Nasdaq may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements which are more rigorous than Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. For instance, our stock price would generally be required to be at least $2 per share and our stockholders’ equity would generally be required to be at least $4 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If Nasdaq delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another national securities exchange, we expect our securities could be quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) or the “pink sheets.” If this were to occur, we could face material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Because our securities are listed on Nasdaq, our units, common stock and warrants are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and, if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. Further, if we were no longer listed on Nasdaq, our securities would not be covered securities and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. 45 Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may lose the ability to complete an otherwise advantageous initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. If we hold a stockholder vote to approve our initial business combination, the federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. If we make a tender offer for our public shares, we will include the same financial statement disclosure in our tender offer documents that is required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such statements in time for us to disclose such statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and consummate our initial business combination within our 16 month time frame (or up to 24 months in case of extensions). The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (which we refer to herein as the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of Nasdaq and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We may remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. If our non-convertible debt issued within a three year period or revenues exceeds $1 billion, or the market value of our common stock that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million on the last day of the second fiscal quarter of any given fiscal year, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of the following fiscal year. 46 We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Additionally, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our share price may be more volatile. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may make it more difficult for us to effectuate a business combination, require substantial financial and management resources, and increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014. The fact that we are a blank check company makes compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particularly burdensome on us as compared to all public companies because a target company with which we seek to complete a business combination may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred shares, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Risks Applicable to the Specialty Chemicals and Performance Materials Industries We intend to focus our search on target businesses focused on the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries. We believe that the following risks will apply to us following the consummation of our initial business combination with a target business focused on the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries. If we elect to pursue an investment outside of these industries, the disclosure below would not be relevant to an understanding of the business that we elect to acquire. 47 Uncertain conditions in the global economy and the financial markets could negatively impact the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries. While economic and financial market conditions have improved from those in 2008 and 2009, continued uncertain conditions in the global economy and global capital markets and uncertainty about the length and stability of economic recovery may adversely affect results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries. Volatility in costs for strategic raw material and energy commodities or disruption in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results. Companies in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries are reliant on strategic raw material and energy commodities for operations and utilize risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. These risk mitigation measures cannot eliminate all exposure to market fluctuations. In addition, natural disasters, plant interruptions, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, and breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used for delivery of strategic raw material and energy commodities, could adversely impact both the cost and availability of these commodities. The specialty chemicals and performance materials industries could be materially adversely affected by disruptions to manufacturing operations or related infrastructure. Significant limitation on a company’s ability to manufacture products due to disruption of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on its sales revenue, costs, results of operations, and financial condition. Disruptions could occur due to internal factors such as computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error, or process failures; or external factors such as natural disasters, pandemic illness, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, cyber attacks, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used for delivery of supplies to or for delivery of products to customers. Legislative or regulatory actions could increase a company’s future compliance costs. The facilities and businesses of companies in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. Accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. The amount accrued generally reflects a company’s assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher costs. Pending and proposed U.S. Federal legislation and regulation increase the likelihood that manufacturing sites will in the future be impacted by regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and energy policy, which legislation and regulation, if enacted, may result in capital expenditures, increases in costs for raw materials and energy, limitations on raw material and energy source and supply choices, and other direct compliance costs. We will operate in a highly competitive industry that includes competitors with greater resources than ours. The specialty chemicals and performance materials industries in which we will seek to compete are highly competitive. Competition in these industries is based on a number of factors, such as price, product, quality and service. Competitors may have greater financial, technological and other resources and may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. In addition, competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Consolidation of competitors or customers may also adversely affect any potential business we enter. Furthermore, global competition and customer demands for efficiency will continue to make price increases difficult. 48 We may seek to operate in cyclical business segments and our financial results are likely to fluctuate accordingly. We may seek to operate in cyclical business segments. Specifically, a substantial portion of sales in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries are to customers involved, directly or indirectly, in the commercial and residential real estate, aerospace, automotive and construction, industrial and energy related industries, all of which are, by their nature, cyclical industries. A downturn in these industries would and has in the past, and may again in the future, result in lower demand for products among customers involved in those industries and a reduced ability to pass on cost increases to these customers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. Patents and trademarks may be of material importance to the operations of any business we acquire. Its performance may depend in part on an ability to establish, protect and enforce such intellectual property and to defend against any claims of infringement, which could involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. Such a business may have to rely on litigation to enforce intellectual property rights and contractual rights. In addition, it may face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to its business operations. If litigation that it initiates is unsuccessful, it may not be able to protect the value of its intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement is successful, it may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that it had been using or may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time. If an acquisition candidate is unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, it may be forced to cease selling or using its products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and may be time-consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. Their intellectual property rights may not have the value that we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect its business and financial performance. Legal proceedings may have a materially negative impact on our future results of operations. Acquisition candidates in the specialty chemicals and performance materials industries are, and may in the future be, subject to various lawsuits and other legal proceedings, including proceedings related to contract, environmental and other regulatory matters. Such companies may also become subject to lawsuits by customers, distributors and employees alleging personal injury or product liability associated with their products and businesses. Adverse judgments or rulings in these legal proceedings, or the filing of additional environmental or other damage claims, may have a materially negative impact on an acquisition candidate’s future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, such a company may incur significant administrative and legal costs associated with defending or settling litigation. Products and manufacturing processes are subject to technological change and our business will suffer if we fail to keep pace. Many of the markets in which our acquisition candidates’ products (and their corresponding manufacturing processes) compete are subject to technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Companies must continue to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities to continue to be a market leader. Such companies must also continue to make improvements in manufacturing processes and productivity to maintain their competitive position. When a company invests in new technologies, processes or production facilities, it will face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties. An inability to anticipate, respond to, capitalize on or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on an acquisition candidate’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. 49 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 