Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business, Properties and Growth Strategies We are employing a new and untested business model with a limited track record, which may make our business difficult to evaluate. Until recently, the single-family rental business consisted primarily of private and individual investors in local markets and was managed individually or by small, local property management companies. Our investment strategy involves purchasing a large number of homes and NPLs and leasing homes to suitable residents. No peer companies exist with an established track record to enable us to predict whether our investment strategy can be implemented successfully over time. It will be difficult for you to evaluate our potential future performance without the benefit of established track records from companies implementing a similar investment strategy. We may encounter unanticipated problems implementing our investment strategy, which may materially and adversely affect us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our investment strategy or that we will be successful in achieving our objective of generating attractive risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders. We are a recently formed company with a limited operating history, and we may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient cash flow to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. We were formed in May 2012 and have a limited operating history. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and business and growth strategies as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Manager’s executive team only began managing the particular assets in our portfolio upon completion of the Separation on the Distribution Date. In addition, our Manager significantly changed the way our operations are managed upon completion of the acquisition of the Waypoint platform on the Distribution Date. As a result, an investment in our common shares may entail more risk than an investment in the common stock of a real estate company with a substantial operating history. If we are unable to operate our business successfully, we would not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders, and you could lose all or a portion of the value of your ownership in our common shares. Our ability to successfully operate our business and implement our operating policies and investment strategy depends on many factors, including: • the availability of, and our ability to identify, attractive acquisition opportunities consistent with our investment strategy; • our ability to contain renovation, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs for our homes; • our ability to maintain high occupancy rates and target rent levels; • our ability to compete with other investors entering the single-family sector; • costs that are beyond our control, including title litigation, litigation with residents or resident organizations, legal compliance, real estate taxes, homeowners’ association (“HOA”), fees and insurance; • judicial and regulatory developments affecting landlord-resident relations that may affect or delay our ability to dispossess or evict occupants or increase rents; • judicial and regulatory developments affecting banks’ and other mortgage holders’ ability to foreclose on delinquent borrowers; • reversal of population, employment or homeownership trends in target markets; • interest rate levels and volatility, such as the accessibility of short-and long-term financing on desirable terms; and • economic conditions in our target markets, including changes in employment and household earnings and expenses, as well as the condition of the financial and real estate markets and the economy generally. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we face significant competition in acquiring attractive properties on advantageous terms, and the value of homes and NPLs that we acquire may decline substantially after we purchase them. We intend to continue to rapidly expand our scale of operations and make acquisitions even if the rental and housing markets are not as favorable as they have been in recent past, which could adversely impact anticipated yields. Our long-term growth depends on the availability of acquisition opportunities within our target parameters in our target markets at attractive pricing levels. We believe various factors and market conditions have made single-family assets available for purchase at prices that are below replacement costs. We expect that in the future housing prices will stabilize and return to more normalized levels and therefore future acquisitions may be more costly. There are many factors that may cause a recovery in the housing market that would result in future acquisitions becoming more expensive and possibly less attractive than recent past and present opportunities, including: • improvements in the overall economy and job market; • a resumption of consumer lending activity and greater availability of consumer credit; • improvements in the pricing and terms of mortgage-backed securities; • the emergence of increased competition for single-family assets from private investors and • entities with similar investment objectives to ours; and • tax or other government incentives that encourage homeownership. We have not adopted and do not expect to adopt a policy of making future acquisitions only if they are accretive to existing yields and distributable cash. We plan to continue acquiring homes and NPLs as long as we believe such assets offer an attractive total return opportunity. Accordingly, future acquisitions may have lower yield characteristics than recent past and present opportunities, and, if such future acquisitions are funded through equity issuances, the yield and distributable cash per share will be reduced, and the value of our common shares may decline. We will rely on a joint venture with Prime, an entity managed by Prime Finance, with respect to our NPL acquisitions, and, if our relationship with Prime is terminated, we may not be able to replace Prime on favorable terms in a timely manner, or at all. Prime, in accordance with our instructions (which, are based in part on the use of certain of our Manager’s analytic tools), identifies potential NPL acquisitions for our joint venture with Prime and coordinates the acquisition, resolution or disposition of any such NPLs for the joint venture. Maintaining our relationship with Prime will be critical for us to effectively run our business. Our Manager may not be successful in maintaining our relationship with Prime. If our partnership with Prime terminates and our Manager is unable to obtain a replacement or if Prime fails to provide quality services with respect to our NPLs, our ability to acquire, resolve or dispose of our NPLs would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. Our investments are and will continue to be concentrated in our target markets and in the single-family homes sector of the real estate industry, which exposes us to downturns in our target markets or in the single family homes sector. Our investments in homes and NPLs are and will continue to be concentrated in our target markets and in the single-family homes sector of the real estate industry. A downturn or slowdown in the rental demand for single-family housing caused by adverse economic, regulatory or environmental conditions, or other events, in our target markets may have a greater impact on the value of our homes and NPLs or our operating results than if 17 Table of Contents we had more fully diversified our investments. While we have limited experience in this sector, we believe that there may be some seasonal fluctuations in rental demand with demand higher in the spring and summer than in the fall and winter. Such seasonal fluctuations may impact our operating results. In addition to general, regional, national and international economic conditions, our operating performance will be impacted by the economic conditions in our target markets. We base a substantial part of our business plan on our belief that homes and NPLs values and operating fundamentals for homes in these markets will improve significantly over the next several years. However, each of these markets experienced substantial economic downturns in recent years and could experience similar or worse economic downturns in the future. We can provide no assurance as to the extent homes and NPLs values and operating fundamentals in these markets will improve, if at all. If the recent economic downturn in these markets persists or if we fail to accurately predict the timing of economic improvement in these markets, the value of our homes and NPLs could decline and our ability to execute our business plan may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. Competition in identifying and acquiring homes and NPLs could adversely affect our ability to implement our business and growth strategies, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our profitability will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to acquire homes on an individual basis and/or in portfolios and NPLs at attractive prices that we can successfully convert into rental homes. Traditionally, foreclosed homes and loans in respect of homes in pre-foreclosure were sold individually to private home buyers and small scale investors. The entry into this market of large, well-capitalized institutional investors, including us, is a relatively recent trend. Several other REITs and private funds have recently deployed, or are expected to deploy, significant amounts of capital to the acquisition of homes and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours. In acquiring our homes and NPLs, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private funds, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies, single-family home rental companies and other entities. Many of our competitors are larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, leasing, marketing and other resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. In addition, any potential competitor may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments and may not be subject to the operating constraints associated with qualification for taxation as a REIT, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments. Competition may result in fewer investments, higher prices, a broadly dispersed portfolio of homes and NPLs that does not lend itself to efficiencies of concentration, acceptance of greater risk, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our financing costs. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment of our capital, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and finance investments that are consistent with our investment objective or to achieve positive investment results, and our failure to accomplish any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. We face significant competition in the leasing market for quality residents, which may limit our ability to rent our homes on favorable terms or at all. Our homes face substantial competition for suitable residents. Competing homes may be newer, better located and more attractive to residents. Potential competitors may have lower rates of occupancy than we do and/or may have superior access to capital and other resources, which may result in competing owners more easily locating residents and leasing available housing at lower rents than we might offer at our homes. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain residents and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. We could also be adversely affected by any overbuilding or high vacancy rates of homes in markets where we acquire homes, which could result in an excess supply of homes and reduce occupancy and rental rates. In 18 Table of Contents addition, if improvements in the economy and housing market permit would-be buyers, who had turned to the rental market, to acquire homes, we may experience increased difficulty in locating a sufficient number of suitable residents to lease our homes. No assurance can be given that we will be able to attract and retain suitable residents. If we are unable to lease our homes to suitable residents, we would be adversely affected and the value of our common shares could decline. The large supply of homes becoming available for purchase as a result of the heavy volume of foreclosures, combined with low residential mortgage rates, may cause some potential renters to seek to purchase residences rather than lease them and, as a result, cause a decline in the number and quality of potential residents. The large supply of foreclosed homes, along with low residential mortgage interest rates currently available and government sponsored programs to promote home ownership, has made home ownership more affordable and more accessible for potential renters who have strong credit. These factors may encourage potential renters to purchase residences rather than lease them, thereby causing a decline in the number and quality of potential residents available to us. The supply of NPLs may decline over time as a result of higher credit standards for new loans and/or general economic improvement and the prices for NPLs may increase, which could materially and adversely affect us. As a result of the economic crisis in 2008, there has been an increase in supply of NPLs available for sale. However, in response to the economic crisis, the origination of jumbo, subprime, Alt-A and second lien residential mortgage loans has dramatically declined as lenders have increased their standards of credit-worthiness in originating new loans and fewer homeowners may go into distressed or non-performing status on their residential mortgage loans. In addition, the prices at which NPLs can be acquired may increase due to the entry of new participants into the distressed loan marketplace or a lower supply of NPLs in the marketplace. For these reasons, along with the general improvement in the economy, the supply of NPLs that we may acquire may decline over time, and such decline could materially and adversely affect us. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the number of available homes and NPLs that meet our investment criteria. The U.S. government, through the Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Administration and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), has implemented a number of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, including the Home Affordable Modification Program, which seeks to provide relief to homeowners whose mortgages are in or may be subject to foreclosure, and the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows certain borrowers who are underwater on their mortgage but current on their mortgage payments to refinance their loans. Several states, including states in which our current target markets are located, have adopted or are considering similar legislation. These programs and other loss mitigation programs may involve, among other things, modifying or refinancing mortgage loans or providing homeowners with additional relief from loan foreclosures. Such loan modifications and other measures are intended and designed to lead to fewer foreclosures and may decrease the supply of homes and NPLs that meet our investment criteria. The pace of residential foreclosures is subject to numerous factors. Recently, there has been a backlog of foreclosures due to a combination of volume constraints and legal actions, including those brought by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), and State Attorneys General against mortgage servicers alleging wrongful foreclosure practices. Financial institutions also have been subjected to regulatory restrictions and limitations on foreclosure activity by the FDIC. Legal claims brought or threatened by DOJ, HUD and 49 State Attorneys General against the five largest residential mortgage servicers in the country were settled in 2012. As part of this approximately $25.0 billion settlement, a portion of the settlement funds will be directed to homeowners seeking to avoid foreclosure through mortgage modifications, and servicers are required to adopt specified measures to reduce mortgage obligations in certain situations. 19 Table of Contents It is expected that the settlement will help many homeowners to avoid foreclosures that would otherwise have occurred in the near term, and with lower monthly payments and mortgage debts, for years to come. It is also foreseeable that other residential mortgage servicing companies that were not among the five included in the initial $25.0 billion settlement will agree to similar settlements that will further reduce the supply of homes in the process of foreclosure or NPLs. In addition, numerous federal and state legislatures have considered, proposed or adopted legislation to constrain foreclosures, or may do so in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which supervises and enforces federal consumer protection laws as they apply to banks, credit unions, and other financial companies, including mortgage servicers. It remains uncertain as to whether any of these measures will have a significant impact on foreclosure volumes or what the timing of that impact would be. If foreclosure volumes were to decline significantly, we would expect real estate owned (“REO”) inventory levels to decline or to grow at a slower pace, which would make it more difficult to find target assets at attractive prices and might constrain our growth or reduce our long-term profitability. Also, the number of families seeking rental housing might be reduced by such legislation, reducing rental housing demand in our target markets. Each state has its own laws governing the procedures to foreclose on mortgages and deeds of trust, and states generally require strict compliance with these laws in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosures. Recently, courts and administrative agencies have been more actively involved in enforcing state laws governing foreclosures, and in some circumstances have imposed new rules and requirements regarding foreclosures. Some courts have delayed or prohibited foreclosures based on alleged failures to comply with proper transfers of title, notice, identification of parties in interest, documentation and other legal requirements. The increase in the number of foreclosures since 2007 has led legislatures in many states to consider modifications to foreclosure laws to restrict and reduce foreclosures. For example, in 2012, California enacted a law imposing new limitations on foreclosures while a request for a loan modification is pending. Further, foreclosed owners and their legal representatives, including some prominent and well-financed law firms, have brought litigation questioning the validity and finality of foreclosures that have already occurred. These developments may slow or reduce the supply of foreclosed homes and NPLs available to us for purchase and may call into question the validity of our title to homes acquired at foreclosure, or result in rescission rights or other borrower remedies, which could result in a loss of a home purchased by us, an increase in litigation and property maintenance costs incurred with respect to homes obtained through foreclosure, or delays in stabilizing and leasing such homes promptly after acquisition. Compliance with governmental laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our homes may adversely affect our business and growth strategies. Rental homes are subject to various covenants and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers, may restrict our use of our homes and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our homes, including prior to acquiring any of our homes or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing homes. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. We cannot assure you that existing regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that would increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our business and growth strategies may be materially and adversely affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and approvals. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and approvals could have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. NPLs may have a particularly high risk of loss, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. In addition to the direct acquisition of homes, we purchase pools of NPLs, which we may seek to (1) convert into homes through the foreclosure or other resolution process that can then either be contributed to our rental 20 Table of Contents portfolio or sold or (2) modify and hold or resell at higher prices if circumstances warrant. Under current market conditions, it is likely that many of these loans will have current LTV ratios in excess of 100%, meaning the amount owed on the loan exceeds the value of the underlying real estate. Further, the borrowers on such loans may be in economic distress and/or may have become unemployed, bankrupt or otherwise unable or unwilling to make payments when due. If we are not able to convert these loans into homes, dispose of these loans or address the issues concerning these loans or if we are unable to do so without significant expense, we may incur significant losses. There are no limits on the percentage of NPLs we may hold. Any loss we incur may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. Our profitability with respect to NPLs will often depend on our ability to rapidly convert these loans into income generating homes through the foreclosure process, which can be an expensive and lengthy process. See “-Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase our costs and/or diminish our expected return on investments.” In addition, certain NPLs that we acquire may have been originated by financial institutions that are or may become insolvent, suffer from serious financial stress or are no longer in existence. As a result, the standards by which such loans were originated; the recourse to the selling institution and/or the standards by which such loans are being serviced or operated may be adversely affected. Further, loans on homes operating under the close supervision of a mortgage lender are, in certain circumstances, subject to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our investment. Whole loan mortgages are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies) and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we find it necessary to liquidate NPLs for any reason, we may experience losses upon the sale of these investments. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell the loans for the prices or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find willing purchasers and to close the sale of loans. If we are unable to sell loans when we determine to do so or if we are prohibited from doing so, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the federal government and numerous state governments have enacted various consumer protection laws and regulations that are designed to discourage predatory lending and servicing practices, including laws and regulations related to “high-cost mortgages” and “higher-priced mortgage loans” supervised and enforced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Violation of such consumer protection laws by the originators or servicers of the NPLs we acquire could subject us as an assignee or, after acquisition, servicer to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against assignees and servicers of high cost mortgage loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the secondary mortgage market. If we are found to have violated such consumer protection laws, we could suffer reputational damage and incur losses that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition of homes or NPLs may be costly and unsuccessful, and, when acquiring portfolios of homes or NPLs, we may acquire some assets that we would not otherwise purchase (including loans that constitute “high-cost mortgage loans”). Our primary strategy is to acquire homes through a variety of channels, renovate these homes to the extent necessary and lease them to qualified residents. In addition to the direct acquisition of homes, we purchase pools 21 Table of Contents of NPLs, which we may seek to (1) convert into homes through the foreclosure or other resolution process that can then either be contributed to our rental portfolio or sold or (2) modify and hold or resell at higher prices if circumstances warrant. When acquiring homes on an individual basis through foreclosure sales or other transactions, these acquisitions of homes may be costly and may be less efficient than acquisitions of portfolios of homes. Alternatively, portfolio acquisitions are more complex than single-home acquisitions, and we may not be able to implement this strategy successfully. The costs involved in locating and performing due diligence (when feasible) on portfolios of homes or NPLs as well as negotiating and entering into transactions with potential portfolio sellers could be significant, and there is a risk that either the seller may withdraw from the entire transaction for failure to come to an agreement or the seller may not be willing to sell us the portfolio on terms that we view as favorable. In addition, a seller may require that a group of homes or NPLs be purchased as a package even though we may not want to purchase certain individual assets in the portfolio. For example, in connection with acquiring a group of NPLs, one or more such loans may constitute a high-cost mortgage or higher-priced mortgage loan. Such loans may have failed to comply with applicable consumer protection laws when originated or while being serviced prior to our acquisition. Although we attempt to modify such loans, we may not be able to do so effectively or at all, which could pose operational, reputational and legal risks that may materially and adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2014, our portfolio of approximately 4,621 NPLs included less than 50 high-cost mortgage loans. If we acquire a portfolio of leased homes, to the extent the management and leasing of such homes has not been consistent with our property management and leasing standards, we may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks relating to the condition of the properties, the credit quality and employment stability of the residents and compliance with applicable laws, among others. In addition, financial and other information provided to us regarding such portfolios during our due diligence may be inaccurate, and we may not discover such inaccuracies until it is too late to seek remedies against such sellers. To the extent we timely pursue such remedies, we may not be able to successfully prevail against the seller in an action seeking damages for such inaccuracies. If we conclude that certain assets purchased in bulk portfolios do not fit our target investment criteria, we may decide to sell these assets, which could take an extended period of time and may not result in a sale at an attractive price. Our evaluation of homes and NPLs involves a number of assumptions that may prove inaccurate, which could result in us paying too much for any such assets we acquire or overvaluing such assets or such assets failing to perform as we expect. In determining whether particular homes and NPLs meet our investment criteria, we make a number of assumptions, including, in the case of homes, assumptions related to estimated time of possession and estimated renovation costs and time frames, annual operating costs, market rental rates and potential rent amounts, time from purchase to leasing and resident default rates. These assumptions may prove inaccurate. As a result, we may pay too much for homes or NPLs we acquire or overvalue such assets, or our homes and NPLs may fail to perform as we expect. Adjustments to the assumptions we make in evaluating potential purchases may result in fewer homes or NPLs qualifying under our investment criteria, including assumptions related to our ability to lease homes or foreclose on NPLs we have purchased. Reductions in the supply of homes or NPLs that meet our investment criteria may adversely affect our ability to implement our investment strategy and operating results. Furthermore, the homes that we acquire vary materially in terms of time to possession, renovation, quality and type of construction, location and hazards. Our success depends on our ability to acquire homes that can be quickly possessed, renovated, repaired, upgraded and rented with minimal expense and maintained in rentable condition. Our ability to identify and acquire such homes is fundamental to our success. In addition, the recent market and regulatory environments relating to homes and residential mortgage loans have been changing rapidly, making future trends difficult to forecast. For example, an increasing number of homeowners now wait for an eviction notice or eviction proceedings to commence before vacating foreclosed premises, which significantly increases the time period between the acquisition of, and the leasing of, a home. Such changes affect the accuracy of our assumptions and, in turn, may adversely affect us. 22 Table of Contents Purchasing homes through the foreclosure auction process will subject us to significant risks that could adversely affect us. Our business plan involves acquiring homes through the foreclosure auction process simultaneously in a number of markets, which involves monthly foreclosure auctions on the same day of the month in certain markets. As a result, we are only able to visually inspect properties from the street and must purchase these homes without a contingency period and in “as is” condition with the risk that unknown defects in the property may exist. We also may encounter unexpected legal challenges and expenses in the foreclosure process. Upon acquiring a new home, we may have to evict residents who are in unlawful possession before we can secure possession and control of the home. The holdover occupants may be the former owners or residents of a property, or they may be squatters or others who are illegally in possession. Securing control and possession from these occupants can be both costly and time-consuming. Further, when acquiring properties on an “as is” basis, title commitments are often not available prior to purchase, and title reports or title information may not reflect all senior liens, which may increase the possibility of acquiring homes outside predetermined acquisition and price parameters, purchasing residences with title defects and deed restrictions, HOA restrictions on leasing or underwriting or purchasing the wrong residence. The policies, procedures and practices we implement to assess the state of title and leasing restrictions prior to purchase may not be effective, which could lead to a material if not complete loss on our investment in such homes. For homes we acquire through the foreclosure auction process, we do not obtain title commitments prior to purchase, and we are not able to perform the type of title review that is customary in acquisitions of real property. As a result, our knowledge of potential title issues will be limited, and no title insurance protection will be in place. This lack of title knowledge and insurance protection may result in third parties having claims against our title to such homes that may materially and adversely affect the values of the homes or call into question the validity of our title to such homes. Without title insurance, we are fully exposed to, and would have to defend ourselves against, such claims. Further, if any such claims are superior to our title to the home we acquired, we risk loss of the home purchased. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect us. Homes that are being sold through short sales or foreclosure sales are subject to risks of theft, mold, infestation, vandalism, deterioration or other damage that could require extensive renovation prior to renting and adversely impact operating results. When a home is put into foreclosure due to a default by the homeowner on its mortgage obligations or the value of the home is substantially below the outstanding principal balance on the mortgage and the homeowner decides to seek a short sale, the homeowner may abandon the home or cease to maintain the home as rigorously as the homeowner normally would. Neglected and vacant homes are subject to increased risks of theft, mold, infestation, vandalism, general deterioration and other maintenance problems that may persist without appropriate attention and remediation. If we begin to purchase a large volume of homes in bulk sales and are not able to inspect them immediately before closing on the purchase, we may purchase properties that may be subject to these problems, which may result in maintenance and renovation costs and time frames that far exceed our estimates. These circumstances could substantially impair our ability to quickly renovate and lease such homes in a cost efficient manner or at all, which would adversely impact our operating results. We may not be permitted to perform on-site inspections of homes in a bulk portfolio sale until we acquire such assets, and we may face unanticipated costly repairs at such homes. When we acquire a portfolio of homes or NPLs, we may not be permitted, or it may not be feasible for us, to perform on-site inspections of all or any of the homes in the portfolio (or underlying the loans in the portfolio) prior to our acquisition of the portfolio. As a result, the value of any such homes or NPLs could be lower than we anticipated at the time of acquisition, and/or such homes could require substantial and unanticipated renovations prior to their conversion into rental homes. 23 Table of Contents Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. We may acquire homes that are subject to contingent or unknown liabilities, including liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to homes, unpaid real estate tax, utilities or HOA charges for which a subsequent owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired entities and tax liabilities, among other things. Purchases of homes acquired at auction, in short sales, from lenders or in bulk purchases typically involve few or no representations or warranties with respect to the homes. In each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse against the sellers with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions. As a result, if any such liability were to arise relating to our homes, or if any adverse condition exists with respect to our homes that is in excess of our insurance coverage, we might have to pay substantial amounts to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. In addition, the homes we acquire may be subject to covenants, conditions or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such homes, including prohibitions on leasing or requirements to obtain the approval of HOAs prior to leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process, and such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to utilize such homes as we intend. Under a Florida statutory scheme implemented by certain Florida jurisdictions, a violation of the relevant building codes, zoning codes or other similar regulations applicable to a property may result in a lien on that property and all other properties owned by the same violator and located in the same county as the property with the code violation, even though the other properties might not be in violation of any code. Until a municipal inspector verifies that the violation has been remedied and any applicable fines have been paid, additional fines accrue on the amount of the lien and lien may not be released, in each case even at those properties that are not in violation. As a practical matter, it might be possible to obtain a release of these liens without remedying the home in violation through other methods, such as payment of an amount to the relevant county, although no assurance can be given that this will necessarily be an available option or how long such a process would take. Vacant homes could be difficult to lease, which could adversely affect our revenues. The homes we acquire may often be vacant at the time of closing and we may not be successful in locating residents to lease the individual homes that we acquire as quickly as we had expected or at all. Even if we are able to place residents as quickly as we had expected, we may incur vacancies in the future and may not be able to re-lease those homes without longer-than-assumed delays. If vacancies continue for a longer period of time than we expect or indefinitely, we may suffer reduced revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. In addition, the value of a vacant home could be substantially impaired. We rely on information supplied by prospective residents in managing our business. We rely on information supplied to us by prospective residents in their rental applications as part of our due diligence process to make leasing decisions, and we cannot be certain that this information is accurate. These applications are submitted to us at the time we evaluate a prospective resident, and we do not require residents to provide us with updated information during the terms of their leases, notwithstanding the fact that this information can, and frequently does, change over time. Even though this information is not updated, we will use it to evaluate the characteristics of our portfolio over time. If resident-supplied information is inaccurate or our residents’ creditworthiness declines over time, we may make poor leasing decisions and our portfolio may contain more credit risk than we believe. 24 Table of Contents We depend on our residents and their willingness to renew their leases for a substantial portion of our revenues. Poor resident selection and defaults and nonrenewals by our residents may adversely affect our reputation, financial performance and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We depend on residents for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified residents for our homes. Our reputation, financial performance and ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected if a significant number of our residents fail to meet their lease obligations or fail to renew their leases. For example, residents may default on rent payments, make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements, make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities, use our homes for illegal purposes, damage or make unauthorized structural changes to our homes that are not covered by security deposits, refuse to leave the home upon termination of the lease, engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances, disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores, fail to comply with HOA regulations, sublet to less desirable individuals in violation of our lease or permit unauthorized persons to live with them. Damage to our homes may delay re-leasing after eviction, necessitate expensive repairs or impair the rental revenue or value of the home resulting in a lower-than-expected rate of return. Widespread unemployment and other adverse changes in the economic conditions in our target markets could result in substantial resident defaults. In the event of a resident default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord at that home and will incur costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing the home. Our leases are relatively short-term in nature, which exposes us to the risk that we may have to re-lease our rental homes frequently and we may be unable to do so on attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all. Our leases are relatively short-term in nature, typically one to two years and in certain cases month-to-month, which exposes us to the risk that we may have to re-lease our rental homes frequently and we may be unable to do so on attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market rental rates more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. In addition, to the extent that a potential resident is represented by a leasing agent, we may need to pay all or a portion of any related agent commissions, which will reduce the revenue from a particular rental home. Alternatively, to the extent that a lease term exceeds one to two years, we may miss out on the ability to raise rents in an appreciating market and be locked into a lower rent until such lease expires. If the rental rates for our rental homes decrease or our residents do not renew their leases, we could be materially and adversely affected. Many factors impact the single-family residential rental market, and if rents in our target markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with rising costs of operations, our income and distributable cash will decline. The success of our business model depends, in part, on conditions in the single-family rental market in our target markets. Our home and NPL acquisitions are premised on assumptions about occupancy levels and rental rates, and if those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our cash flows and profitability will be reduced. Occupancy levels and rental rates have benefited in recent periods from macro trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate markets in particular, including: • a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance a home purchase, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit; • weak economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates and made it more difficult for families to remain in their homes that were purchased prior to the housing market downturn; • declining real estate values that have challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment; • the unprecedented level of vacant housing comprising the REO inventory held for sale by banks; and • government-sponsored entities and other mortgage lenders or guarantors. 25 Table of Contents We do not expect these favorable trends in the residential rental market to continue indefinitely. Eventually, a strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, coupled with government programs designed to keep homeowners in their homes and/or other factors may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors like us increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase housing assets at below replacement costs and convert them to productive uses, the supply of single-family rental homes will decrease and the competition for residents may intensify. A softening of the rental market in our target areas would reduce our rental revenue and profitability. We may not have control over timing and costs arising from renovating our homes, and the cost of maintaining rental homes is generally higher than the cost of maintaining owner-occupied homes, which will affect our costs of operations and may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Renters impose additional risks to owning real property. Renters do not have the same interest as an owner in maintaining a home and its contents and generally do not participate in any appreciation of the home. Accordingly, renters may damage a home and its contents, and may not be forthright in reporting damages or amenable to repairing them completely or at all. A rental home may need repairs and/or improvements after each resident vacates the premises, the costs of which may exceed any security deposit provided to us by the resident when the rental home was originally leased. Accordingly, the cost of maintaining rental homes can be higher than the cost of maintaining owner-occupied homes, which will affect our costs of operations and may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase our costs and/or diminish our expected return on investments. Our ability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans and, in certain cases, where appropriate, seek alternative resolutions for the underlying homes plays a critical role in our valuation of the homes and NPLs in which we invest and our expected return on those investments. We expect the timeline to convert acquired NPLs into homes will vary significantly by loan. Borrowers may resist foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses against us including, without limitation, numerous lender liability claims and defenses, even when such assertions may have no basis in fact, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and force a modification of the loan or a favorable buy-out of the borrower’s position. In some states, foreclosure actions can sometimes take several years or more to litigate. At any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and further delaying the foreclosure process. Foreclosure may also create a negative public perception of the related mortgaged home, resulting in a diminution of its value. In addition, there are a variety of other factors that may inhibit our ability to foreclose upon mortgage loans, including, without limitation: federal, state or local legislative action or initiatives designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures and that serve to delay the foreclosure process; the Home Affordable Modification Program and similar programs that require specific procedures to be followed to explore the refinancing of a mortgage loan prior to the commencement of a foreclosure proceeding; and declines in real estate values and sustained high levels of unemployment that increase the number of foreclosures and place additional pressure on the already overburdened judicial and administrative systems. As a result, we may be unable to convert these loans into homes quickly, on a cost-effective basis or at all, which could result in significant losses. In addition, certain issues, including “robo-signing,” have been identified recently throughout the mortgage industry that relate to affidavits used in connection with the mortgage loan foreclosure process. There can be no assurance that proper practices relative to foreclosure proceedings and its proper use of affidavits have been followed in connection with mortgage loans that are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time we purchase such loans. To the extent we determine that any of these loans are impacted by these issues, we may be required to re-commence the foreclosure proceedings relating to such 26 Table of Contents loans, thereby resulting in additional delay that could have the effect of increasing our cost of doing business and/or diminishing our expected return on our investments. The uncertainty surrounding these issues could also result in legal, regulatory or industry changes to the foreclosure process as a whole, any or all of which could lengthen the foreclosure process and negatively impact our business. Eminent domain could lead to material losses on our investments in our properties. Governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which our homes are built in order to build roads and other infrastructure. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow us to recover only the fair value of the affected homes. Our investment strategy is premised on the concept that this “fair value” will be substantially less than the real value of the home for a number of years, and we could effectively have no profit potential from properties acquired by the government through eminent domain. Several cities also are exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire mortgages to assist homeowners to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of homes in our target markets. A significant number of our homes are part of HOAs, and we and our residents are subject to the rules and regulations of such HOAs, which may be arbitrary or restrictive, and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation with such HOAs that would be costly. A significant number of our homes are part of HOAs, which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. HOAs in which we own homes may have or enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict our ability to renovate, market or lease our homes or require us to renovate or maintain such homes at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a home for lease or sale, or the use of specific construction materials in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of homeowners who may rent their homes, which if met or exceeded, would cause us to incur additional costs to resell the home and opportunity costs of lost rental revenue. Furthermore, many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of residents of homes and the use of common areas, and we may have residents who violate HOA rules and for which we may be liable as the homeowner. Additionally, the boards of directors of the HOAs in which we own homes may not make important disclosures about the homes or may block our access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict our ability to sell our homes, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. We may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with HOA rules before purchasing the home, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause us to sell such home at a loss, prevent us from renting such home or otherwise reduce our cash flow from such home, which would have an adverse effect on our returns on these homes. Our revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and, because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed, we may not be able to adapt our cost structure to offset declines in our revenue. Most of the expenses associated with our business, such as acquisition costs, renovation and maintenance costs, real estate taxes, HOA fees, personal and ad valorem taxes, insurance, utilities, employee wages and benefits and other general corporate expenses, are relatively inflexible and will not necessarily decrease with reduction in revenue from our business. Our assets also are prone to depreciation and will require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditures. Our expenses and ongoing capital expenditures also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain of our cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. By contrast, our rental revenue is affected by many factors beyond our control such as the availability of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in our target markets. In addition, state and local regulations may require us to maintain homes that we own, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the value of the home or any potential benefit from renting the home. As a result, we may not be able to fully offset rising costs and capital spending by higher rental rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution. 27 Table of Contents Fair values of our investments are imprecise and may materially and adversely affect our operating results and credit availability, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect us. The values of our investments may not be readily determinable. We evaluate our loans held for investment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Ultimate realization of the value of an investment depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which an investment can be sold since market prices of investments can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. In certain cases, our estimation of the fair value of our investments will include inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. If we were to liquidate a particular investment, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such investment was recorded. Accordingly, in either event, we could be materially and adversely affected by our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time. We anticipate involvement in a variety of litigation. We anticipate involvement in a range of legal actions in the ordinary course of business. These actions may include eviction proceedings and other landlord-resident disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of the home. These actions can be time consuming and expensive. While we intend to vigorously defend any non-meritorious action or challenge, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to expenses and losses that may adversely affect our operating results. Class action, resident rights and consumer demands and litigation could directly limit and constrain our operations and may impose on us significant litigation expenses. Numerous residents’ rights and consumers’ rights organizations exist throughout the country and operate in our target markets, and as we grow in scale, we may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues, and with the large settlements identified below and the increased market for homes arising from displaced homeownership, some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-resident issues. While we intend to conduct our business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-resident and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against us on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take, or what remedies they may seek. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against us, or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain our business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain our operations and may impose on us significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Our board of trustees may change any of our business and growth strategies or investment guidelines, financing strategy or leverage policies without shareholder consent. Our board of trustees may change any of our business and growth strategies or investment guidelines, financing strategy or leverage policies with respect to acquisitions, investments, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our shareholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile. A change in our business and growth strategies may 28 Table of Contents increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations, concentration risk and interest rate risk, among other risks. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These changes could have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business we acquire and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our prospective and current residents, our Manager’s employees and third-party service providers in our offices and on our networks and website and on third-party vendor networks. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business and growth strategies. Despite our security measures and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and such infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, which could adversely affect us. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect us and the value of our common shares. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of the Waypoint platform, our Manager and Starwood Capital Group. Any failure or interruption of these systems could cause delays or other problems in our investment, leasing and management activities, which could have a material adverse effect on us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. See “—Risks Related to Our Relationships with Starwood Capital Group, Our Manager, Prime, SPT, the Waypoint Manager and the Waypoint Legacy Funds. The interruption of our Manager’s ability to use Compass may have an adverse impact on our business.” If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately present our financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to accurately report our financial results. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which generally require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for so long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. Once we are no longer an “emerging growth company” or, if prior to such date, we opt to no longer take advantage of the applicable exemption, we will be required to include an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we may require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our public company reporting obligations and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could materially and adversely affect us. 29 Table of Contents General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our operating results are subject to general economic conditions and risks associated with our real estate assets. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership and rental of real estate, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: • changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions; • declines in the value of residential real estate; • overall conditions in the housing market, including: • macroeconomic shifts in demand for rental homes; • inability to lease or re-lease homes to residents timely, on attractive terms or at all; • failure of residents to pay rent when due or otherwise perform their lease obligations; • unanticipated repairs, capital expenditures or other costs; • uninsured damages; and • increases in property taxes and insurance costs; • pace of residential foreclosures; • level of competition for suitable rental homes; • terms and conditions of purchase contracts; • costs and time period required to convert acquisitions to rental homes; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage financing that may render the acquisition of any homes difficult or unattractive; • the illiquidity of real estate investments generally; • the short-term nature of most residential leases and the costs and potential delays in re-leasing; • availability of new government programs to reduce foreclosure rates or facilitate a recovery in the housing market; • changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged; • limitations imposed upon us by government sponsored enterprises or other sellers on our ability to sell certain of our rental homes during a specified time period; • disputes and potential negative publicity in connection with the eviction of an existing resident at one of our homes; • damage to a rental home caused by a current or former resident; • overbuilding; • changes in laws; • costs resulting from the clean-up of, and liability to third parties for damages resulting from, environmental problems, such as indoor mold; • casualty or condemnation losses; • fraud by borrowers, originators and/or sellers of mortgage loans; • undetected deficiencies and/or inaccuracies in underlying mortgage loan documentation and calculations; 30 Table of Contents • the geographic mix of our assets; • the cost, quality and condition of assets we are able to acquire; and • our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay an attractive dividend yield to our shareholders, the value of our common shares will decline. Environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by applicable environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, natural resources or property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated. A property owner who violates environmental laws may be subject to sanctions which may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be exposed to such costs. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated property could materially and adversely affect us. Compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. We may be subject to environmental laws or regulations relating to our properties, such as those concerning lead-based paint, mold, asbestos, and proximity to power lines or other issues. We cannot assure you that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by the operations of residents, existing conditions of the land, operations in the vicinity of the properties or the activities of unrelated third parties. In addition, we may be required to comply with various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in fines and/or damages, suspension of personnel, civil liability and/or other sanctions. Resident relief laws and rent control laws may negatively impact our rental revenue and profitability. As landlord of numerous homes, we will be involved regularly in evicting residents who are not paying their rent or are otherwise in material violation of the terms of their lease. Eviction activities will impose legal and managerial expenses that will raise our costs. The eviction process is typically subject to legal barriers, mandatory cure policies and other sources of expense and delay, each of which may delay our ability to gain possession and stabilize the home. Additionally, state and local landlord-resident laws may impose legal duties to assist residents in relocating to new housing, or restrict the landlord’s ability to recover certain costs or charge residents for damage residents cause to the landlord’s premises. Because such laws vary by state and locality, we will need to be familiar with and take all appropriate steps to comply with all applicable landlord-resident laws, and we will need to incur supervisory and legal expenses to ensure such compliance. To the extent that we do not comply with state or local laws, we may be subjected to civil litigation filed by individuals, in class actions or by state or local law enforcement. We may be required to pay our adversaries’ litigation fees and expenses if judgment is entered against us in such litigation or if we settle such litigation. 31 Table of Contents Furthermore, rent control laws may affect our rental revenue. Especially in times of recession and economic slowdown, rent control initiatives can acquire significant political support. If rent controls unexpectedly became applicable to certain of our homes, our revenue from and the value of such homes could be adversely affected. We may suffer losses that are not covered by insurance. We attempt to ensure that all of our homes are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, fires, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that may not always be insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. In addition, changes in the cost or availability of insurance could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. In the event that any of our homes incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our homes will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues in these homes and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the homes. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a home after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed home. Any such losses could adversely affect us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. In addition, we may have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged home, and we cannot assure that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. We may have difficulty selling our real estate investments, and our ability to distribute all or a portion of the net proceeds from such sale to our shareholders may be limited. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, as a result, we may have a limited ability to sell our homes and NPLs. Illiquidity for NPLs may result from the absence of an established market for the NPLs, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on their resale, refinancing or other disposition. Such restrictions would interfere with subsequent sales of such loans or adversely affect the terms that could be obtained upon any disposition thereof. When we sell any of our assets, we may recognize a loss on such sale. We may elect not to distribute any proceeds from the sale of assets to our shareholders. Instead, we may use such proceeds for other purposes, including: • purchasing additional homes or NPLs; • repaying debt, if any; • buying out interests of any co-venturers or other partners in any joint venture in which we are a party; • creating working capital reserves; or • making repairs, maintenance or other capital improvements or expenditures to our remaining properties. Our ability to sell our properties may also be limited by our need to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax that is imposed on gain recognized by a REIT from the sale of property characterized as dealer property. In order to ensure that we avoid such characterization, we may be required to hold our properties for a minimum period of time and comply with certain other requirements in the Code or dispose of our properties through a TRS. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships with Starwood Capital Group, Our Manager, Prime, SPT, the Waypoint Manager and the Waypoint Legacy Funds We are dependent on Starwood Capital Group, our Manager, Prime, and their key personnel who provide services to us, and we may not find a suitable replacement for our Manager or Starwood Capital Group if the Management Agreement is terminated, or for these key personnel if they leave Starwood Capital Group or otherwise become unavailable to us. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Manager. Our Manager has significant discretion as to the implementation of our investment and operating policies and strategies. All of our executive officers are executives of our Manager. Accordingly, we believe that our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts, experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the officers and key personnel of our Manager. The officers and key personnel of our Manager will evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor our investments; therefore, our success will depend on their continued service. Our Manager also oversees the services of Prime with respect to our NPLs. The departure of any of the officers or key personnel of our Manager or Prime could have a material adverse effect on our performance. We offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our Manager or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s officers and key personnel. Our Manager will not be obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us, nor will our Manager be obligated to dedicate any specific portion of time to our business, and none of our Manager’s employees are contractually dedicated to us under the Management Agreement with our Manager. Some of the officers and employees of our Manager have responsibilities associated with the Waypoint Legacy Funds and as a result, these individuals may not always be willing or able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. The initial term of each of the Management Agreement with our Manager and the investment advisory agreement between our Manager and Starwood Capital Group Management, L.L.C. only extends until January 31, 2017, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter. If the Management Agreement and the investment advisory agreement are terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. We may have conflicts of interest with Starwood Capital Group and SPT. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with Starwood Capital Group, including our Manager, and SPT, our former parent company. Pursuant to the co-investment and allocation agreement among our Manager, Starwood Capital Group and us, our Manager and Starwood Capital Group have agreed that neither they nor any entity controlled by Starwood Capital Group (including SPT) will sponsor or manage any U.S. publicly traded entity (other than us) that invests primarily in single-family residential rental homes or single-family NPLs for so long as the Management Agreement is in effect and our Manager and Starwood Capital Group are under common control. However, our Manager and Starwood Capital Group and their respective affiliates may sponsor or manage (1) a U.S. publicly traded entity (including SPT) that invests generally in real estate assets, including rental homes or single-family NPLs, so long as any such entity does not invest primarily in single-family residential rental homes or single-family NPLs, or (2) a private or foreign entity that invests primarily in single-family residential rental homes or single-family NPLs; provided that, in each case, Starwood Capital Group will adopt a policy that either (a) provides for the fair and equitable allocation of investment opportunities between any such entity and us or (b) provides us the right to co-invest with any such entity, in each case subject to the suitability of each investment opportunity for any such entity and us and any such entity’s and our availability of cash for investment. As a result, we may compete with these vehicles for investment opportunities sourced by our Manager and Starwood Capital Group, or we may not be presented with a particular opportunity. Some of the members of our Manager’s investment committee would likely be responsible for selecting investments for these vehicles, and they may choose to allocate favorable investments to one or more of these vehicles instead of to us. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to make investments pursuant to our business and growth strategies is currently subject to (1) the fund documents of Starwood Global Opportunity Fund VIII, Starwood Global Opportunity Fund IX and Starwood Capital Hospitality Fund II Global collectively, (the “Starwood Private Real Estate Funds”) and (2) the co-investment and allocation agreement among our Manager, Starwood Capital Group and us. Pursuant to the fund documents of the Starwood Private Real Estate Funds, if a proposed investment is (1) to be made by any investment vehicle (including us or SPT) managed by an entity controlled by Starwood Capital Group, (2) to be made in equity or debt interests relating to real estate and (3) expected (by the manager of the entity proposing to make the investment), at the time such investments is made, to produce an IRR in excess of 14%, which we refer to as a Starwood Real Estate Fund Allocation Investment, then the Starwood Private Real Estate Funds collectively will have the right to invest 25% of the equity capital proposed to be invested in such Starwood Real Estate Fund Allocation Investment. Pursuant to the co-investment and allocation agreement among our Manager, Starwood Capital Group and us, if an investment proposed to be made by any of Starwood Capital Group or its affiliates (including the Starwood Private Real Estate Funds) (each, a “Starwood Party”) or us consists of single-family rental homes and/ or single-family NPLs (or a portfolio that contains equity interests relating to real estate, if our Manager determines that more than 50% of the aggregate anticipated investment returns from the portfolio are expected to come from single-family rental homes and/or single-family NPLs), we will have the right to invest at least 75% of the equity capital proposed to be invested in such investment. Whether any Starwood Party or we exercise all or any part of its or our co-investment right will be subject to, among other things, the determination by the sponsor, manager or general partner, as the case may be, of each Starwood Party (each an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group) that the investment is suitable for such fund and the determination by our Manager (also an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group) that the investment is suitable for us. We will pay our Manager substantial base management fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Manager’s entitlement to a base management fee, which is not based upon performance metrics or goals, might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that maximize total returns to our shareholders. This in turn could hurt both our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares. We own homes in some of the same geographic regions as the Waypoint Legacy Funds and may compete for residents with the Waypoint Legacy Funds. Upon completion of the Separation, we did not acquire the Waypoint Legacy Funds, or the assets thereof. The Waypoint Manager has agreed that the Waypoint Legacy Funds and the Waypoint Manager will no longer contract to acquire additional homes and will not contract to acquire single-family NPLs, except for (1) acquisitions of homes by a Waypoint Legacy Fund funded solely using proceeds of sales of other homes owned by such Waypoint Legacy Fund or (2) the acquisition of homes or portfolios of homes that do not meet our principal investment objectives. However, we own homes in some of the same geographic regions as the Waypoint Legacy Funds, and, as a result, we may compete for residents with the Waypoint Legacy Funds. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain residents and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. If we are unable to lease our homes to suitable residents, we would be adversely affected and the value of our common shares could decline. We may have other conflicts of interest with the Waypoint Manager and the Waypoint Legacy Funds. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of certain of our officers and trustees and our Manager’s officers’ relationships with the Waypoint Manager and the Waypoint Legacy Funds. Each of Gary M. Beasley, our Co-Chief Executive Officer; Douglas R. Brien, our Co-Chief Executive Officer; Colin T. Wiel, our Chief Investment Officer; Nina A. Tran, our Chief Financial Officer; S. Ali Nazar, our Chief Experience Officer; and 34 Table of Contents Tamra D. Browne, our General Counsel and Secretary, continues to own an indirect beneficial ownership interest in the Waypoint Manager. These individuals, as well as other employees of our Manager on whom we rely, could make substantial profits as a result of opportunities or management resources allocated to the Waypoint Legacy Funds or entities other than us, and they may have greater financial incentives tied to the success of such entities than to us. In addition, the obligations of our Manager and its officers and personnel to engage in other business activities, including for Starwood Capital Group or the Waypoint Manager, may reduce the time that our Manager and its officers and personnel spend managing us. For instance, when there are turbulent conditions in the real estate markets or distress in the credit markets, the attention of our executive officers and other of our Manager’s personnel and the resources of our Manager will also be required by the Waypoint Legacy Funds. In such situations, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we would receive if we were internally managed. The Waypoint Manager manages homes owned by the Waypoint Legacy Funds. We did not acquire the Waypoint Legacy Funds or the assets thereof. As a result, the Waypoint Manager, and thereby certain of our officers and trustees and members of our Manager’s executive team, may compete directly with us for financing opportunities, for leasing and in other aspects of our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The Waypoint Manager has no fiduciary duties to us and there is no assurance that any conflicts of interest between the Waypoint Manager and us will be resolved in favor of our shareholders. Our Manager has acquired the Waypoint platform but did not acquire the Waypoint Manager. Through one or more affiliates, the Waypoint Manager (1) is owned by certain members of our Manager’s executive team and other third parties and (2) is permitted to continue to manage the assets and properties of the Waypoint Legacy Funds and to collect and retain for the Waypoint Manager’s sole account the net fee income and promoted interests in such entities. To facilitate these efforts, appropriate Waypoint Manager affiliates have been granted, during the duration of the Waypoint Legacy Funds’ existence, (1) a license to use the technology and operational platform and knowhow of our Manager and (2) in order to assist in the operation of homes owned by the Waypoint Legacy Funds, access to the employees that our Manager retained upon completion of the Separation. The Waypoint Manager does not have any employees of its own. Any expenses, including personnel and employee costs related to the Waypoint Manager or the Waypoint Legacy Funds, incurred by our Manager are either reimbursed by the Waypoint Manager at actual cost or covered (in whole or in part) pursuant to an agreed upon arrangement with the Waypoint Manager. The fees that we pay to our Manager are not reduced in connection with any reimbursement of our Manager by the Waypoint Manager or the Waypoint Legacy Funds. In contrast to many publicly traded REITs owning more traditional real estate asset classes or real estate-related securities portfolios, we believe that the success of our business will require a significantly higher level of hands-on, day-to-day attention from our Manager’s employees. Because the Waypoint Manager will have access to the employees of our Manager, such employees will have less time available to devote to our business and may be unable to effectively allocate their time and other resources among multiple portfolios. Accordingly, the quality of services provided to us by our Manager’s employees could decline, which could adversely impact all aspects of our business, including our growth prospects, resident retention, occupancy and/or our results of operations. The Management Agreement with our Manager was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party and may be costly and difficult to terminate. Our executive officers and four of our eight trustees are executives of our Manager. The Management Agreement with our Manager was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Termination of the Management Agreement with our Manager without cause is difficult and costly. Our independent trustees review our Manager’s performance annually, and, following the initial term, the 35 Table of Contents Management Agreement may be terminated annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent trustees based upon: (1) our Manager’s unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to us; or (2) our determination that the management fees payable to our Manager are unfair, subject to our Manager’s right to prevent termination based on unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent trustees. We will provide our Manager with 180 days’ prior written notice of such a termination. Upon such a termination, we will pay our Manager a termination fee equal to three times the annualized base management fee based on the management fee paid in the most recently completed eight fiscal quarters before the date of termination. We may also terminate the Management Agreement at any time, including during the initial term, for cause without payment of any termination fee. During the initial three-year term of the Management Agreement, we may not terminate the Management Agreement except for cause. Our Manager is only contractually committed to serve us until January 31, 2017. Thereafter, the Management Agreement is renewable for one-year terms; provided, however, that our Manager may terminate the Management Agreement annually upon 180 days’ prior notice. If the Management Agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, our Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of our board of trustees in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations or, if applicable, that of Starwood Capital Group Management, L.L.C. Our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, our Manager and its affiliates and members and the officers, holders, directors and personnel of our Manager and its affiliates and members will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our trustees, our shareholders or any subsidiary’s shareholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, except because of acts or omissions constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement. We have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its affiliates and members and the officers, holders, directors and personnel of our Manager and its affiliates and members with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts or omissions of our Manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement. Our conflicts of interest policy may not adequately address all of the conflicts of interest that may arise with respect to our investment activities and also may limit the allocation of investments to us. In order to avoid any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with the Starwood related parties, including SPT, our former parent company, or the Waypoint related parties, we have adopted a policy that specifically addresses some of the conflicts relating to our investment opportunities. Although under this policy the approval of a majority of our independent trustees is required to approve (1) any purchase of our assets by any of the Starwood related parties or any of the Waypoint related parties and (2) any purchase by us of any assets of any of the Starwood related parties or any of the Waypoint related parties, there is no assurance that this policy will adequately address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that results in the allocation of a particular investment opportunity to us or is otherwise favorable to us. In addition, the Starwood Parties currently, and additional competing vehicles in the future, may participate in some of our investments. Participating investments will not be the result of arm’s length negotiations and will involve potential conflicts between our interests and those of the other participating entities in obtaining favorable terms. Since all of our executive officers also executives of our Manager, the same personnel may determine the price and terms for the investments for both us and these entities and there can be no assurance that any procedural protections, such as obtaining market prices or other reliable indicators of fair value, will prevent the consideration we pay for these investments from exceeding their fair value or ensure that we receive terms for a particular investment opportunity that are as favorable as those available from an independent third party. 36 Table of Contents The interruption of our Manager’s ability to use Compass may have an adverse impact on our business. Our Manager’s operations are dependent upon Compass, which includes certain automated processes that require access to telecommunications or the internet, each of which is subject to system security risks. Certain critical components of Compass are dependent upon third-party providers and a significant portion of our Manager’s business operations are conducted over the internet. As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted access to telecommunications, the internet or operations at our third-party providers, including viruses or experienced computer programmers that could penetrate network security defenses and cause system failures and disruptions of operations. Even though our Manager believes it utilizes appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in telecommunications, the internet or at our Manager’s third-party providers could negatively impact our operations. We incur significant costs related to reimbursing our Manager for our allocable share of compensation paid to certain of our Manager’s officers and employees in addition to the management fee payable to our Manager. We incur significant costs associated with reimbursing our Manager for our allocable share of compensation paid to certain of our Manager’s officers and employees in addition to the management fee we pay our Manager. We may not be able to cover such costs or to be profitable, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Manager is still building its operational expertise and infrastructure, and our Manager is dependent upon new employees to manage and operate our homes. Our Manager continues to hire new employees to provide a variety of services and establishing mutually beneficial relationships with third-party service providers. As we grow and expand into new markets, our Manager will need to hire and train additional employees, and may elect to hire additional third-party resources. In addition, our Manager continually evaluates and improves infrastructure and processes including those related to our Manager’s initial investment, construction and renovation, repairs and maintenance, residential management and leasing, brand development, accounting systems and billing and payment processing. Our Manager significantly changed the way our operations are managed with the acquisition of the Waypoint platform, and our Manager is continuing to adapt our existing portfolio to the new management platform. Building operational expertise, establishing infrastructure, and training employees to use the infrastructure are difficult, expensive and time-consuming tasks, and problems may arise despite the best efforts of our Manager. There is a significant risk that any operational problems encountered by our Manager will have an adverse effect upon our financial performance, especially in newer markets that we have recently entered. If we internalize our Manager, we will become exposed to new and additional costs and risks and may pay substantial consideration to our Manager. Starwood Capital Group may propose in the future that we internalize our Manager. If we internalize our Manager, we will become exposed to new and additional costs and risks. For example, while we would no longer bear the external costs of the management fee paid to our Manager if we become internally managed, our direct overhead may increase, as we would be responsible for 100% of the compensation and benefits of our officers and other employees. If the homes we acquire do not perform as anticipated or if we fail to raise additional financing, we may not be able to cover such additional overhead. In addition, internalizing our Manager may require that we pay substantial consideration to our Manager. This could require that we obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Accordingly, if we internalize our Manager, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We may choose to not internalize our Manager despite the fact that we may have the right and the ability to internalize our Manager. Starwood Capital Group may, in its sole discretion, present to us a proposal to internalize our Manager after we raise incremental equity capital equal or greater than $2.0 billion (subject to adjustment under certain circumstances). No assurances can be given that we will internalize our Manager. In the event that we, for any reason whatsoever, choose to not internalize our Manager, our Manager will continue to collect its management fee and any reimbursements to which it is entitled. We may not be able to effect an internalization of our Manager and its affiliates’ operations associated with our management and growth, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Any proposal to internalize our Manager will be the subject of definitive documentation and negotiation between us and our Manager, approval by our board of trustees, our shareholders and, potentially, the owners of our Manager, and our receipt of a fairness opinion from an investment banking firm of national reputation. Among other things, the proposal could include terms and conditions which may be viewed as undesirable by our board of trustees. Similarly, our board of trustees may suggest terms and conditions in response to the proposal that our Manager may find objectionable, including with respect to the proposed consideration. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude an internalization transaction, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Our board of trustees has approved very broad investment guidelines for our Manager and will not approve each investment and financing decision made by our Manager unless required by our investment guidelines. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our board of trustees periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except if the investment is in excess of $35.0 million (or, if greater, 5% of our average market capitalization over the preceding fiscal quarter). In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of trustees may rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Furthermore, our Manager may use complex strategies, and transactions entered into by our Manager may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of trustees. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets it may decide are attractive investments for us, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. Further, decisions made and investments and financing arrangements entered into by our Manager may not fully reflect the best interests of our shareholders. Risks Related to Sources of Financing We expect to use leverage in executing our business strategy, which may adversely affect the return on our assets and may reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Subject to maintaining our status as a REIT, we intend to employ prudent leverage, to the extent available, to fund the acquisition of residential assets and to increase our potential return on shareholder equity. In determining to use leverage, our Manager assesses a variety of factors, including the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the assets in our investment portfolio, the cash flow generation capability of our assets, the availability of credit on favorable terms, any prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing, the credit quality of our assets and our outlook for borrowing costs relative to the unlevered yields on our assets. We expect to employ portfolio financing primarily and to utilize credit facilities, other bank or capital markets debt financing, if available, or securitizations, depending on market conditions. We may consider seller financing if available from sellers of portfolios of residential assets and potentially financing from government sponsored enterprises if attractive programs are available. We may also utilize other financing alternatives and capital raising alternatives such as follow-on offerings of our common shares, preferred shares and hybrid equity. We 38 Table of Contents have no limitation under our organizational documents or any contract on the amount of funds that we may borrow for any single investment or that may be outstanding at any one time in the aggregate. We may significantly increase the amount of leverage we utilize at any time without approval of our board of trustees. As of December 31, 2014, we have entered into the following debt transactions (see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 8—Debt included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of these transactions): • $1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2014, $441.2 million had been drawn on the secured revolving credit facility. • $500.0 million master repurchase agreement. As of December 31, 2014, $454.2 million had been drawn on the master repurchase agreement. • On July 7, 2014, we issued $230.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Convertible Notes”). • On October 14, 2014, we issued $172.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Convertible Notes” and, together with the 2019 Convertible Notes, the “Convertible Notes”). • On December 19, 2014, we completed our first securitization transaction, which involved the issuance and sale in a private offering of single-family rental pass-through certificates issued by a trust established by us. The certificates represent beneficial ownership interests in a $531.0 million loan secured by a portfolio of 4,095 homes. Subsequent to December 19, 2014, we repaid $2.0 million in principal and reduced the portfolio to 4,081 homes and the total proceeds of securitization to $502.5 million. The outstanding balance on this transaction as of December 31, 2014 was $526.8 million. Incurring substantial debt could subject us to many risks that, if realized, would adversely affect us, including the risk that: • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest on the debt which is likely to result in acceleration of such debt; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase with higher financing cost; • we may be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for distributions to our shareholders, operations and capital expenditures, future acquisition opportunities, or other purposes; and • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance the debt through additional debt financings or additional capital raising. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flows, and, consequently, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of substantial numbers of homes and/or NPLs on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. To the extent we cannot meet any future debt service obligations, we will risk losing some or all of our homes and/or NPLs that may be pledged to secure our obligations to foreclosure. Any unsecured debt agreements we enter into may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the unsecured lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Defaults under our debt agreements could materially and adversely affect us and cause the value of our common shares to decline. 39 Table of Contents Access to financing sources may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, especially in light of current market conditions, which could adversely affect our ability to maximize our returns. We expect to employ portfolio financing primarily, to utilize credit facilities or other bank or capital markets debt financing, if available, and securitizations, depending on market conditions. We may consider seller financing if available from sellers of portfolios of residential assets and potentially financing from government sponsored enterprises if attractive programs are available. We may also utilize capital raising alternatives such as follow-on offerings of our common shares, preferred shares and hybrid equity. As of December 31, 2014, we have accessed various financing sources as described in the prior risk factor. Our access to additional third-party sources of financing will depend, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • with respect to acquisition financing, the market’s perception of the value of the homes to be acquired; • our current debt levels; • our current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow and cash distributions; and • the market price of our common shares. Recently, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility, uncertainty and a tightening of liquidity in both the investment grade debt and equity capital markets and, on a more prolonged basis, the securitization market. Credit spreads for major sources of capital widened significantly during the U.S. credit crisis as investors demanded a higher risk premium. Given the recent volatility and weakness in the capital and credit markets, potential lenders may be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing that is attractive to us or may charge us prohibitively high fees in order to obtain financing. Consequently, there is greater uncertainty regarding our ability to access the credit market in order to attract financing on reasonable terms. Investment returns on our assets and our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected by our inability to secure financing on reasonable terms, if at all. Depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our shareholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our shareholders and other purposes. We may not have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all. Our financing arrangements contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The financing arrangements that we have entered into contain (and those we may enter into in the future likely will contain) covenants affecting our ability to incur additional debt, make certain investments, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our shareholders and otherwise affect our distribution and operating policies. See Item 1. Business—Our Financing Strategy included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of these facilities and their covenants. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants in our debt agreements, we will be in default under these agreements, which could result in a cross-default under other debt agreements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their respective interests against existing collateral. In addition, debt agreements entered into in the future may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to other specified indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. A default also could limit significantly our financing alternatives, 40 Table of Contents which could cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets when we otherwise would not choose to do so. If we default on several of our debt agreements or any single significant debt agreement, we could be materially and adversely affected. Secured indebtedness exposes us to the possibility of foreclosure on our ownership interests in our rental homes. Incurring mortgage and other secured indebtedness increases our risk of loss of our ownership interests in our rental homes because defaults thereunder, and the inability to refinance such indebtedness, may result in foreclosure action initiated by lenders. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our rental homes would be treated as a sale of the home for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the indebtedness secured by such rental home. If the outstanding balance of the indebtedness secured by such rental home exceeds our tax basis in the rental home, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure without receiving any cash proceeds. The Convertible Notes are effectively subordinated to our secured debt and any liabilities of our subsidiaries. The Convertible Notes rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Convertible Notes; equal in right of payment to any of our unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure our debt will be available to pay obligations on the Convertible Notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets. There may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Convertible Notes then outstanding. The indentures governing the Convertible Notes will not prohibit us from incurring additional senior debt or secured debt, nor will it prohibit any of our subsidiaries from incurring additional liabilities. For example, nothing in the Convertible Note indentures or the Convertible Notes would prohibit our operating partnership from incurring indebtedness that would rank structurally senior to the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes are our obligations only, and our operations are conducted through, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by, our subsidiaries. The Convertible Notes are our obligations exclusively and are not guaranteed by any of our operating subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to service our debt, including the Convertible Notes, depends on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of such subsidiaries to provide us with cash, whether in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise, to pay amounts due on our obligations, including the Convertible Notes. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make payments on the Convertible Notes or to make any funds available for that purpose. In addition, dividends, loans or other distributions to us from such subsidiaries may be subject to contractual and other restrictions and are subject to other business considerations. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including the Convertible Notes. 41 Table of Contents We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes or to repurchase the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change; our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Convertible Notes. Holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely common shares to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes surrendered therefor or to pay the cash amounts due upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Convertible Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by future agreements governing our indebtedness. The failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the Convertible Note indentures or to pay any cash due and payable on the Convertible Notes as required by the Convertible Note indentures would constitute a default under the indentures. A default under the Convertible Note indentures or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Notes or make cash payments thereon. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely common shares (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, such as the Convertible Notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of the accounting treatment for such instruments is that the value of such embedded conversion option would be treated as an original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes, and that original issue discount is amortized into interest expense over the term of the Convertible Notes using an effective yield method. As a result, we will initially be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense because of the amortization of the original issue discount to the Convertible Notes’ face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes and because of the amortization of the debt issuance costs. Accordingly, we will report lower net income in our financial results because of the recognition of both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the Convertible Notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common shares and the trading price of the Convertible Notes. Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the Convertible Notes are accounted for as if the number 42 Table of Contents of our common shares that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be certain that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected. Holders of Convertible Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common shares, but they will be subject to all changes made with respect to them to the extent our conversion obligation includes our common shares. Holders of Convertible Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common shares (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common shares) prior to the conversion date relating to the Convertible Notes (if we have elected to settle the relevant conversion by delivering solely our common shares (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), which we refer to as physical settlement) or the last trading day of the relevant observation period (if we elect to pay and deliver, as the case may be, a combination of cash and our common shares in respect of the relevant conversion, which we refer to as combination settlement), but holders of Convertible Notes will be subject to all changes affecting our common shares. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our declaration of trust or bylaws requiring shareholder approval and the record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date related to a holder’s conversion of its Convertible Notes (if we have elected to physical settlement) or the last trading day of the relevant observation period (if we have elected combination settlement), such holder will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes affecting our common shares. Securitization markets have undergone significant periods of significant dislocation and we might not be able to access the securitization market for capital in the future. On December 19, 2014, we completed our first securitization transaction, which involved the issuance and sale in a private offering of single-family rental pass-through certificates issued by a trust established by us. The certificates represent beneficial ownership interests in a $531.0 million loan secured by a portfolio of 4,095 homes operated as rental properties contributed by us from our portfolio of homes to a newly-formed special purpose subsidiary, which then entered into the loan agreement. We retained the $26.6 million Class G certificates. Subsequent to December 19, 2014, we repaid $2.0 million in principal and reduced the portfolio to 4,081 homes and the total proceeds of securitization to $502.5 million. The outstanding balance on the loan as of December 31, 2014 was $526.8 million. The global economy recently experienced a significant recession and recent events in the real estate and securitization markets, as well as the debt markets and the economy generally, have caused significant dislocations, illiquidity and volatility in the market for asset-backed securities and mortgage-backed securities, as well as a severe, ongoing disruption in the wider global financial markets, including a significant reduction of investor demand for, and purchases of, asset-backed securities and structured financial products. Disruptions on the securitization market could preclude our ability to use securitization as a financing source or could render it an inefficient source of financing making us more dependent on alterative sourcing of financing that might not be as favorable as securitizations in otherwise favorable markets. Securitization structures are subject to an evolving regulatory environment that may affect the availability and attractiveness of this financing option. In the United States, Europe and elsewhere, following the financial crisis, there is increased political and regulatory scrutiny of the asset-backed securities industry. This has resulted in a raft of measures for increased regulation which are currently at various stages of implementation and which may have an adverse impact on the regulatory capital charge to certain investors in securitization exposures and/or the incentives for certain investors to hold asset-backed securities, and may thereby affect the liquidity of such securities. Any of these could limit our access to securitization as a source of financing. This increased regulation could also alter the structure of securitizations in and could pose risks to our participation in any securitizations or could reduce or eliminate the economic incentives of participating in securitizations. 43 Table of Contents Interest expense on our debt may limit our cash available to fund our growth strategies and distributions to our shareholders. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on floating rate debt and could reduce funds available for operations, distributions to our shareholders, future business opportunities or other purposes. If we need to repay then-existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments and could result in a loss. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Subject to complying with the requirements for REIT qualification, we may obtain in the future one or more forms of interest rate protection—in the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements—to hedge against the possible negative effects of interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately relieve the adverse effects of interest rate increases or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations thereunder. In addition, we may be subject to risks of default by hedging counterparties. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments at times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our investments in order to meet our debt service obligations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares If an active trading market is not sustained for our common shares, our shareholders’ ability to sell shares when desired and the prices obtained will be adversely affected. Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the trading symbol “SWAY.” However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common shares will be maintained. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to the ability of our shareholders to sell their common shares or the price that our shareholders may obtain for their common shares. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price of our common shares include: • our actual or projected operating results, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, or changes in business or growth strategies or prospects; • actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our Manager, Starwood Capital Group, SPT, the Waypoint Manager, the Waypoint Legacy Funds and individuals, including our executives; • equity issuances by us, or share resales by our shareholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions to or departures of our Manager’s or Starwood Capital Group’s key personnel; • the process surrounding and the impact of the potential internalization of our Manager; • speculation in the press or investment community; • our failure to meet, or the lowering of, our earnings estimates or those of any securities analysts; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to demand a higher distribution yield for our common shares, if we have begun to make distributions to our shareholders, and would result in increased interest expenses on our debt; 44 Table of Contents • failure to maintain our REIT qualification; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market generally; and • general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets. Market factors unrelated to our performance could also negatively impact the market price of our common shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher distribution rate or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and conditions in the capital markets can affect the market value of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our common shares will decrease as market rates on interest-bearing securities increase. There may be future dilution of our common shares as a result of additional issuances of our securities, which could adversely impact our share price. Our board of trustees is authorized to, among other things, authorize the issuance of additional common shares or the issuance of preferred shares or additional securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities (including OP units), without shareholder approval. Future issuances of our common shares or preferred shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities may dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Because our decision to issue additional equity or convertible or exchangeable securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future issuances. In addition, we are not required to offer any such securities units to existing shareholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, it may not be possible for existing shareholders to participate in such future issuances, which may dilute the existing shareholders’ interests in us. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares. Also, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common shares, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common shares. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We anticipate making regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common shares. U.S. federal income tax law generally requires that a REIT distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and that it pay tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it annually distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income. We generally intend over time to make quarterly distributions in an amount at least equal to our REIT taxable income. We intend to make distributions in cash to the extent that cash is available for such purpose. Although we anticipate initially making quarterly distributions to our shareholders, the timing, form and amount of distributions to our shareholders, if any, will be at the sole discretion of our board of trustees and will depend upon a number of factors, including our actual and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders are: • our inability to convert the homes and NPLs we acquire into rental homes and to rent our homes at the rates we anticipate; • unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow or non-cash earnings; 45 Table of Contents • decreases in the value of our portfolio; and • defaults under or contractual restrictions in any lending or financing arrangement that we enter into. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our shareholders at any time in the future or that the level of any distributions we do make to our shareholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Distributions to our shareholders will be generally taxable to them as ordinary income, although a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as capital gain or qualified dividend income or may constitute a return of capital. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a shareholder’s investment in our common shares. Offerings of additional debt or equity securities, which rank senior to our common shares, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. If we decide to issue additional debt or equity securities in the future, which rank senior to our common shares, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any additional convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares and may result in dilution to owners of our common shares. We and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus holders of our common shares will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting the value of their share holdings in us. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend rate on our common shares or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our dividend rate, the market price of our common shares could decrease because potential investors may require a higher dividend yield on our common shares as market rates on our interest-bearing instruments such as bonds rise. In addition, to the extent we have variable rate debt, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control of us. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) that are applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common shares. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior 46 Table of Contents to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our board of trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting capital stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of trustees prior to the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of trustees has by resolution exempted business combinations between us and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of trustees (including a majority of our trustees who are not affiliates or associates of such person). This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If this resolution is repealed, or our board of trustees does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL that are applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts provide that “control shares” of a Maryland real estate investment trust (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of “control shares,” our officers and our personnel who are also our trustees. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the “control share” acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of beneficial interest. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL that are applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain provisions as long as we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent trustees. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred shares may prevent a change in our control. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued common or preferred shares. In addition, our board of trustees may, without shareholder approval, amend our declaration of trust to increase the aggregate number of our shares of beneficial interest or the number of our shares of beneficial interest of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of trustees may establish a series of common or preferred shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 47 Table of Contents Certain provisions in the indentures governing the Convertible Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us. Certain provisions in the Convertible Notes and the related indentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if a takeover would constitute a fundamental change, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a makewhole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their Convertible Notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Convertible Notes and the indentures could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit our shareholders’ recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders’ best interests. Under Maryland law generally, a trustee’s actions will be upheld if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that, subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred shares, a trustee may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders entitled to cast at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of trustees. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and may prevent a change in control of us that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Ownership limitations may restrict changes in control of us in which our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2014, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest. This ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. 48 Table of Contents The REIT rules relating to prohibited transactions could affect our disposition of assets and adversely affect our profitability. As described below in “—Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT—Gains from sales of our assets are potentially subject to the prohibited transactions tax or a corporate level income tax,” we intend to conduct our activities to avoid the prohibited transaction tax. However, the avoidance of this tax could reduce our liquidity and cause us to undertake less substantial sales of property than we would otherwise undertake in order to maximize our profits. In addition, we may have to sell numerous properties to a single or a few purchasers, which could cause us to be less profitable than would be the case if we sold properties on a property-by-property basis. Maintenance of our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act imposes significant limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are U.S. Government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves “investment companies” and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company for private funds set forth in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. We are organized as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through wholly-owned (and, in one case, over 99% owned) subsidiaries. We intend to conduct our operations so that we do not come within the definition of an investment company because less than 40% of the value of our adjusted total assets on an unconsolidated basis will consist of “investment securities.” The securities issued by any wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries that we may form in the future that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” based on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a value in excess of 40% of the value of our adjusted total assets on an unconsolidated basis. We monitor our holdings to ensure continuing and ongoing compliance with this test. In addition, we believe we will not be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act because we will not engage primarily or hold ourselves out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries. If the value of securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we own, exceeds 40% of our adjusted total assets on an unconsolidated basis, or if one or more of such subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so or (c) to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our securities. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. We expect that our NPL owning subsidiaries will rely upon the exemption from registration as an investment company under the 1940 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which is available for 49 Table of Contents entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of these subsidiaries’ assets must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of each of their portfolios must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets under the 1940 Act. Mortgage loans that were fully and exclusively secured by real property are generally qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the exemption. All, or substantially all, of our NPLs are fully and exclusively secured by real property with a LTV ratio of less than 100%. As a result, we believe our NPLs that are fully and exclusively secured by real property meet the definition of qualifying real estate assets. To the extent we own any NPLs with a LTV ratio of greater than 100%, we may classify, depending on guidance from the SEC staff, such loans in whole as real estate-related assets or classify only the portion of the value of such loans that does not exceed the value of the real estate collateral as qualifying real estate assets and the excess as real estate-related assets. In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release pursuant to which they solicited public comments on a wide range of issues relating to companies engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and mortgage-related instruments and that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act. The concept release and the public comments thereto have not yet resulted in SEC rulemaking or interpretative guidance and we cannot predict what form any such rulemaking or interpretive guidance may take. There can be no assurance, however, that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of REITs, or guidance from the SEC or its staff regarding the exemption from registration as an investment company on which we rely, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. We expect each of our subsidiaries relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) to rely on guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of guidance published with respect to other types of assets, if any, to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to make certain investments and these limitations could result in us holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold. Certain of our subsidiaries may rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(6) to the extent that they hold NPLs through majority owned subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C). The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6) and any guidance published by the staff could require us to adjust our strategy accordingly. To the extent that the SEC staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon the exceptions we and our subsidiaries rely on from the 1940 Act, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC staff could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the strategies we have chosen. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of REITs, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. The JOBS Act will allow us to postpone the date by which we must comply with certain laws and regulations intended to protect investors and to reduce the amount of information we provide in our reports filed with the SEC. The JOBS Act is intended to reduce the regulatory burden on “emerging growth companies.” We may take advantage of some or all of the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that will be available to us so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” except that we have irrevocably elected not to take advantage of the extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards available under Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act. Among other reduced requirements available to us, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 50 Table of Contents reporting so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” which may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected. Likewise, so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” we may elect not to provide you with certain information, including certain financial information and certain information regarding compensation of our executive officers, that we would otherwise have been required to provide in filings we make with the SEC, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us. As a result, investor confidence in us and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local taxes, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to operate and to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common shares. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. The rule against re-electing REIT status following a loss of such status would also apply to us if SPT fails to qualify as a REIT, and we are treated as a successor to SPT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although SPT represented to us at the time of the Separation that it had no knowledge of any fact or circumstance that would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT and covenanted to us that it would use its reasonable best efforts to maintain its REIT status for each of SPT’s taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2014 (unless SPT obtained an opinion from a nationally recognized tax counsel or a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that SPT ’s failure to maintain its REIT status would not cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT under the successor REIT rule referred to above), no assurance can be given that such representation and covenant will prevent us from failing to qualify as a REIT. Although, in the event of a breach, we may be able to seek damages from SPT, there can be no assurance that such damages, if any, would appropriately compensate us. In addition, if SPT were to fail to qualify as a REIT despite its reasonable best efforts, we would have no claim against SPT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Dividends payable to domestic shareholders that are individuals, trusts, and estates are generally taxed at reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common shares. 51 Table of Contents REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. As a result, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions; (2) borrow on unfavorable terms; (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt; or (4) make a taxable distribution of shares of beneficial interest as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive shares (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution), in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares. The share ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs and our declaration of trust may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of trustees to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our shares of beneficial interest. Our board may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine appropriate in order to conclude that we will not lose our status as a REIT under the Code. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our declaration of trust are determined based on the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our declaration of trust are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Many jurisdictions impose real property transfer taxes or recording fees on transfers of real property in a foreclosure, by a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or by similar process, and make the transferee either jointly liable with the transferor for the tax or fee, or liable for the tax or fee in the event the transferor fails to pay it. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through a TRS or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. In addition, if we lend money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to us, which could result in an even higher corporate-level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 52 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive investment opportunities or liquidate certain of our investments. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must on an ongoing basis satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We may be required to make distributions to our shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Gains from sales of our assets are potentially subject to the prohibited transactions tax or a corporate level income tax. Our ability to dispose of homes and NPLs during the first few years following their acquisition is restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT status. We will be subject to a 100% tax on any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of any homes or NPLs we own, directly or through any subsidiary entity, but excluding any TRS, that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business other than “foreclosure property” as defined in the Code. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. To avoid the prohibited transaction tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales at the REIT level, even though such sales might otherwise be beneficial to us. For example, we may be required to conduct acquisitions or dispositions through a TRS, which would be subject to federal corporate income tax, and our ownership of which would also be subject to certain limitations. While we intend to conduct our business to avoid the prohibited transactions tax and, where appropriate, the corporate income tax, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with our determinations, and that we will not be subject to the prohibited transactions tax or the corporate income tax on sales of property. Re-characterization of leases as financings transactions may negatively affect us. While we generally intend to use reasonable commercial efforts to structure any lease transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” with us treated as the owner and lessor of the property for federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any lease transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a seller-financed conditional sale transaction for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. In addition, if we enter such transactions at the REIT level, in the event of re-characterization, the REIT could be subject to prohibited transaction taxes. Finally, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year and require us to pay deficiency dividends, interest and penalty taxes in order to maintain REIT status. We may experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the receipt of cash. We may acquire NPLs in the secondary market for less than their face amount. We may take the position these loans are uncollectible and that we are not required to accrue unpaid interest and “market discount” as taxable income as it accrues. Nevertheless, we may be required to recognize interest as taxable income as it accrues. In addition, market discount, accrued on a constant yield method, is generally recognized as income when, and to the extent that, a payment of principal on the debt instrument is made. Payments on residential mortgage loans are ordinarily made monthly, and consequently accrued market discount may have to be included in income each month as if the debt instrument were assured of ultimately being collected in full. In such a case, while we would ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available later when the unpaid interest and market discount were determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on our having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. 53 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to our investment strategy, we may foreclose on, or acquire by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, NPLs to acquire the underlying properties. A foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure is generally treated as a recognition event for tax purposes, which may result in taxable gain without receipt of cash based on the difference between our cost of the related loan and the fair market value of the property acquired by foreclosure or similar process. In addition, in certain circumstances, we may modify a NPL by agreement with the borrower. If these modifications are “significant modifications” under applicable Treasury Regulations, we may be required to recognize taxable gain to the extent the principal amount of the modified loan exceeds our adjusted tax basis in the unmodified loan, even if the value of the loan and payment expectations have not changed. Finally, we may be required under the terms of indebtedness that we incur to use cash from rent or interest income payments that we receive, or gain that we recognize, to make principal payments on that indebtedness, with the effect of recognizing income but not having a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Due to these potential timing differences between income recognition and cash receipts, there is a significant risk that we may have substantial taxable income in excess of the cash available for distribution, which would require us to have other sources of liquidity in order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. A recent IRS administrative pronouncement with respect to investments by REITs in distressed debt secured by both real and personal property, if interpreted adversely to us, could cause us to pay penalty taxes or potentially to lose our REIT status. The NPLs that we acquire will generally be acquired by us at a discount from their outstanding principal amount, because our pricing is based on the value of the underlying real estate that secures those mortgage loans. Treasury Regulation Section 1.856-5(c) provides rules for determining what portion of the interest income from mortgage loans that are secured by both real and personal property is treated as “interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property.” Under that regulation, if a mortgage covers both real property and other property, a REIT is required to apportion its annual interest income to the real property security based on a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the real property securing the loan, determined when the REIT committed to acquire the loan, and the denominator of which is the highest “principal amount” of the loan during the year. The IRS, has issued Revenue Procedure 2011-16 interpreting the “principal amount” of the loan to be its face amount despite the Code’s general requirement that taxpayers treat market discount as interest rather than principal. The interest apportionment regulation applies only if the debt in question is secured both by real property and personal property. We believe that all of the mortgage loans that we acquire are secured only by real property and no other property value is taken into account in our underwriting and pricing. Accordingly, we believe that the interest apportionment regulation does not apply to our portfolio. A successful IRS assertion to the contrary might prevent us from meeting the 75% REIT gross income test and adversely affect our REIT status. With respect to the 75% REIT asset test, Revenue Procedure 2011-16 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS will not challenge a REIT’s treatment of a loan as being a real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to acquire the loan or (2) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date. This safe harbor, if it applied to us, would help us comply with the REIT asset tests following the acquisition of distressed debt if the value of the real property securing the loan were to subsequently decline. However, if the value of the real property securing the loan were to increase, the safe harbor rule of Revenue Procedure 2011-16, read literally, could have the peculiar effect of causing the corresponding increase in the value of the loan to not be treated as a real estate asset. We do not believe, however, that this was the intended 54 Table of Contents result in situations in which the value of a loan has increased because the value of the real property securing the loan has increased, or that this safe harbor rule applies to debt that is secured solely by real property. Nevertheless, if the IRS took the position that the safe harbor rule applied in these scenarios, then we might not be able to meet the various quarterly REIT asset tests if the value of the real estate securing our loans increased, and thus the value of our loans increased by a corresponding amount. If we did not meet one or more of these tests, then we could potentially either lose our REIT status or be required to pay a tax penalty to the IRS. We may choose to pay dividends in our own shares possibly requiring our shareholders to pay taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. Although we have no current intention to do so, we may in the future distribute taxable dividends payable either in cash or our shares of beneficial interest at the election of each shareholder, but subject to a limitation on the amount of cash that may be distributed. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, whether received as cash or our shares of beneficial interest, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 