Item 1A, Risk Factors as well as risks discussed elsewhere in this report. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. In addition, as a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. The cautionary statements referred to in this section also should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be issued by us or persons acting on our behalf. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report might not occur. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. More detailed information regarding certain risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this report. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Substantial Indebtedness General economic conditions and consumer spending affect our business. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the merchandise that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing global economic conditions, inflation, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, housing costs, energy costs, commodities pricing, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, credit availability and debt levels. An incremental slowdown in the U.S. economy, an uncertain global economic outlook or an expanded credit crisis could adversely affect consumer spending habits resulting in lower net sales and profits than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. Consumer confidence is also affected by the domestic and international political situation. Our financial condition and operations could be impacted by changes in government regulations in areas including, but not limited to, taxes and healthcare. The outbreak or escalation of war, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the U.S. could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In addition, natural disasters, industrial accidents and acts of war in various parts of the world could have the effect of disrupting supplies and raising prices globally which, in turn, may have adverse effects on the world and U.S. economies and lead to a downturn in consumer confidence and spending. We face increased competition from other retailers that could adversely affect our business. The retail sector is highly competitive, and retailers are constantly adjusting their promotional activity and pricing strategies in response to changing conditions. We compete on the basis of a combination of factors, including among others, price, breadth, quality and style of merchandise offered, in-store experience, level of customer service, ability to identify and respond to new and emerging fashion trends, brand image and scalability. We compete with a wide variety of large and small retailers for customers, vendors, suitable store locations and personnel. In order to increase traffic and drive consumer spending in the economic environment of the past several years, competitors, including department stores, mass merchants and specialty apparel stores, have been offering brand-name merchandise at substantial markdowns. Continuation of this trend, or the possible effect on consumer buying patterns that improving economic conditions could have, may cause consumer demand to shift from off-price retailers to other retail categories, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to meet changes in the competitive environment and to positively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, we do not possess exclusive rights to many of the elements that comprise our product offerings. Our competitors may seek to emulate facets of our business strategy, which could result in a reduction of any competitive advantage or special appeal that we might possess. In addition, most of our products are sold to us on a non-exclusive basis. As a result, our current and future competitors may be able to duplicate or improve on some or all of our product offerings that we believe are important in differentiating our stores. If our competitors were to duplicate or improve on some or all of our in-store experience or product offerings, our competitive position and our business could suffer. Our results also depend on the successful implementation of several additional strategic initiatives. We may not be able to implement these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. We have recently implemented or begun to implement several strategic initiatives designed to transform our business and improve our performance. The success of our recent initiatives is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives, and is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other associates. We face a number of uncertainties in connection with the successful implementation of these strategic initiatives. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these strategic initiatives will improve our performance. Examples of the uncertainties surrounding our strategic initiatives include the following: • we may lose executives or other key employees with leading roles in implementing the various initiatives; • our buying, inventory management and supply chain initiatives may fail to yield the results expected; • our investments in technology and systems may fail to improve efficiency; • our data-driven testing culture may not result in successful initiatives; • our sharpened focus on our core female customer may fail to increase sales as expected; • we may not be able to uniformly implement our in-store experience program; • our investment in refreshing our store base may not yield commensurate increases in sales; and • the success of our new store selection in opening high-performing stores may decrease. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and results of operations could cause our business performance to decline substantially. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of the 35 week transition period beginning on May 31, 2009, the day following the end of our 2009 fiscal year, and ended on January 30, 2010, our quarterly comparable store sales rates have ranged from an increase of 7.8% to a decrease of 7.1%. Our comparable store sales and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • changes in our merchandise mix; • weather patterns, including, among other things, changes in year-over-year temperatures; • availability of suitable real estate locations at desirable prices and our ability to locate them; • our ability to effectively manage pricing and markdowns; 8 Table of Contents • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • our ability to anticipate, understand and meet consumer trends and preferences; • actions of competitors; and • the attractiveness of our inventory and stores to customers. If our future comparable store sales fail to meet expectations, then our cash flow and profitability could decline substantially. Our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. Our growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. We intend to continue to open new stores in future years, while refreshing a portion of our existing store base annually. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the current retail environment, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our proposed expansion also will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. In addition, to the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our $600.0 million Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2014 (the ABL Line of Credit); however, if we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. We may not be able to execute any of these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to implement these strategies successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate seasonally, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the five-month period from September through January. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management process could adversely affect our business. We purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically, with our buyers purchasing close to need. Establishing the “treasure hunt” nature of the off-price buying experience to drive traffic to our stores requires us to offer changing assortments of merchandise in our stores. While opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. If we are unable to provide frequent replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores, it could adversely affect traffic to our stores as well as our sales and margins. We base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match 9 Table of Contents customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to markdown excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. We need to purchase inventory sufficiently below conventional retail to maintain our pricing differential to regular department and specialty store prices and to attract customers and sustain our margins, which we may not achieve at various times and which could adversely affect our results. We must also properly execute our inventory management strategies by appropriately allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns, and there is no assurance we will be able to do so. Failure to effectively execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management strategies could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. Failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to follow customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to buy inventory in response to those trends and preferences. However, identifying consumer trends and preferences in the diverse product lines and many markets in which we do business and successfully meeting customer demand across those lines and for those markets on a timely basis is challenging. Although our flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing tastes, we may not do so successfully, which could adversely affect our results. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to the expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. Most of our current leases expire at various dates after five or ten-year terms, the majority of which are subject to our option to renew such leases for several additional five-year periods. Our ability to renew any expiring lease or, if such lease cannot be renewed, our ability to lease a suitable alternative location, and our ability to enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms will depend on many factors, some of which may not be within our control, such as conditions in the local real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords. If we are unable to renew existing leases or lease suitable alternative locations, or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and profitability may be negatively impacted. Extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers or associates to travel to our stores. In addition, unforeseen public health issues, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, floods, earthquakes, and other extreme weather or climate conditions, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or facilities located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting our business operations. Any of these events or circumstances could disrupt the operations of one or more of our vendors or one or more of our stores located in the affected areas. Day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores, could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall or winter season or cool weather during the spring or summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because a significant portion of our net sales historically have occurred during the five-month period from September through January, unseasonably warm weather during these months could have a disproportionately large effect on our business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our vendors and if we are unable to purchase suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, we may be unable to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our customers and our sales may be harmed. The products that we offer are manufactured by third party vendors. Some of our key vendors may limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise, which may, in limited cases, result in intense competition among retailers to obtain and sell these goods. In addition, nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers and some of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. Moreover, we typically buy products from our vendors on a purchase order basis. We have no long-term purchase contracts with any of our vendors and, therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. If our relationships with our vendors are disrupted, we may not be able to acquire the merchandise we require in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise would have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements were made, resulting in deferred or lost sales. In addition, events that adversely affect our vendors could impair our ability to obtain desired merchandise in sufficient quantities. Such events include difficulties or problems associated with our vendors’ business, finances, labor, importation of products, costs, production, insurance and reputation. Our failure to find store employees who can effectively operate our stores could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of store employees, including store managers, who understand and appreciate our corporate culture and customers, and are able to adequately and effectively represent this culture. The store employee turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high. Excessive store employee turnover will result in higher employee costs associated with finding, hiring and training new store employees. Moreover, improvement in general economic conditions may decrease the supply of part-time labor, which constitutes the majority of our store employee base. Our labor costs are subject to many external factors, including unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, wage increases by our competitors, minimum wage laws, potential collective bargaining arrangements, health insurance costs and other insurance costs and changes in employment and labor legislation or other workplace regulation (including changes in entitlement programs such as health insurance and paid leave programs). Any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability, or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, we could suffer increased employee turnover. We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our stores and distribution facilities, with heightened dependence during busy periods such as the holiday season and when multiple new stores are opening. There can be no assurance that we will receive adequate assistance from our temporary personnel, or that there will be sufficient sources of suitable temporary personnel to meet our demand. Any such failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in energy prices. Increases in energy costs may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers, as well as reductions in the amount of disposable income available to customers and the use of automobiles, thereby reducing traffic to our stores. A sustained rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our performance. Parties with whom we do business may be subject to insolvency risks which could negatively impact our liquidity. Many economic and other factors are outside of our control, including but not limited to commercial credit availability. These factors also affect our vendors who, in many cases, depend upon commercial credit to finance their operations. If they are unable to secure commercial financing, our vendors could seek to change the terms on which they sell to us, which could negatively affect our liquidity. In addition, the inability of vendors to access liquidity, or the insolvency of vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. Although we purchase most of our inventory from vendors domestically, apparel production is located primarily overseas. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, we are dependent upon the timely receipt of quality merchandise from suppliers and vendors. Factors which affect overseas production could affect our suppliers and vendors and, in turn, our ability to obtain inventory and the price levels at which they may be obtained. Although such factors apply equally to our competitors, factors that cause an increase in merchandise costs or a decrease in supply could lead to generally lower sales and gross margins in the retail industry. Such factors include: • political or labor instability in countries where suppliers are located or at foreign and domestic ports which could result in lengthy shipment delays, which, if timed ahead of the Fall and Winter peak selling periods, could materially and adversely affect our ability to stock inventory on a timely basis; • political or military conflict involving apparel producing countries, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products to us and an increase in transportation costs; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • disease epidemics, outbreaks and other health related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; • natural disasters and industrial accidents, which could have the effect of curtailing production and disrupting supplies; • increases in labor and production costs in goods-producing countries, which would result in an increase in our inventory costs; • the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • fluctuation in our suppliers’ local currency against the dollar, which may increase our cost of goods sold; and • changes in import duties, taxes, charges, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” trading status with the United States for a particular foreign country and trade restrictions (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). 12 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business would be disrupted severely if either of our primary distribution centers were to shut down. During Fiscal 2014, we extended central distribution services to approximately 92% of our merchandise units through our distribution facilities. Our two primary distribution centers are currently located in Edgewater Park, New Jersey and San Bernardino, California. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise. If either of our current primary distribution centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be disrupted. Although in such circumstances our stores are capable of receiving inventory directly from suppliers via drop shipment, we would incur significantly higher costs and a reduced ability to control inventory levels during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace either of our primary distribution centers. Software used for our management information systems may become obsolete, conflict with the requirements of newer hardware and may cause disruptions in our business. We rely on our existing management information systems, including some software programs that were developed in-house by our employees, in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandising planning and replenishment, as well as various financial systems. If we fail to maintain or update such software to meet the demands of changing business requirements or if we decide to modify or change our hardware and/or operating systems and the software programs that were developed in-house are not compatible with the new hardware or operating systems, disruption to our business may result. Failure to operate and maintain currently deployed information systems or implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems. If an act of God, interference by computer hackers or another event caused our information systems to not function properly, major business disruptions could occur. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage sales, distribution, merchandise planning and allocation functions. We have some redundant capabilities across our data center in Edgewater, New Jersey, our corporate headquarters campus consisting of two locations in Florence and Burlington, New Jersey, respectively, and at a Disaster Recovery Center located in Chicago, Illinois. If a disaster impacts either corporate location, while it most likely would not fully incapacitate us, our operations could be significantly affected. System redundancy and recovery is targeted to support the most critical aspects of running our business, but our disaster recovery planning may be ineffective, insufficient or inadequate to address all eventualities. The failure of our information systems and the third party systems we rely on to perform as designed, or our failure to implement and operate them effectively, could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our sales and profitability. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, whether through a breach of our computer system or otherwise, could severely hurt our business. As part of our normal course of business we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security and oversight for processing, transmission, storage and the protection of confidential information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third parties with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism and theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. 13 Table of Contents Electronic security attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations are constantly evolving, and high profile electronic security breaches leading to unauthorized release of confidential information have occurred recently at a number of major U.S. companies. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems or the systems of third parties with which we do business and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential business information. In addition, our associates, contractors or third parties with which we do business or to which we outsource business operations may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to misappropriate such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Despite advances in security hardware, software, and encryption technologies, computer hackers are continuously developing new tools and methods that may increase the risk of a breach. While we continue to invest in the protection of our information technology by implementing and maintaining what we believe are adequate security procedures and controls over financial and other individually identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, such procedures and controls may not be effective. An electronic security breach in our systems (or in the systems of third parties with which we do business) that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, including possible punitive damages. In addition, as the regulatory environment relating to retailers and other companies’ obligation to protect such sensitive data becomes stricter, a material failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. Changes in product safety laws may adversely impact our operations. We are subject to regulations by a variety of state and federal regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) imposes limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in children’s products. These laws and regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety particularly with respect to products used by children. In the event that we are unable to timely comply with regulatory changes, including those pursuant to the CPSIA, significant fines or penalties could result, which could adversely affect our operations. Our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if our advertising and marketing programs are not effective in generating sufficient levels of customer awareness and traffic. We rely on print and television advertising to increase consumer awareness of our product offerings and pricing to drive store traffic. In addition, we rely and will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising, including, without limitation, social media and e-marketing. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising and marketing programs. In order for our advertising and marketing programs to be successful, we must: • manage advertising and marketing costs effectively in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on our marketing investment; and • convert customer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases. Our planned advertising and marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparable net sales or generate sufficient levels of product awareness. Further, we may not be able to manage our advertising and marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. Additionally, some of our competitors may have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage over us. 14 Table of Contents Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of theses platforms and devices could adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. Consumers value readily available information concerning retailers and their goods and services and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. Information concerning us may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. The loss of key personnel may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. We depend on the contributions of key personnel for our future success. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain executives, we may not be able to retain all of our executive and key employees. These executives and other key employees may be hired by our competitors, some of which have considerably more financial resources than we do. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Circumstances limiting our ability to access capital markets could adversely affect our business or financial condition. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity. A decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our short and long-term debt may also negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. These circumstances may negatively impact our access to capital markets, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business or financial condition. There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation or regulatory proceedings which could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand image. We face the risk of litigation and other claims against us from time to time. Litigation and other claims may arise in the ordinary course of our business and include employee claims, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations and slip and fall claims. At times, these cases raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Litigation and other claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liability, as well as materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation. Like many retailers, we have been named in class or collective actions on behalf of various groups alleging violations of federal and state wage and hour and other labor statutes, and alleged violation of consumer and/or privacy protection statutes. In the normal course of business, we are also party to various other lawsuits and regulatory proceedings including, among others, commercial, product, product safety, employee, customer, intellectual property and other claims. Actions against us are in various procedural stages. Many of these proceedings raise factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. In the matter of Burlington Coat Factory Song Beverly Cases which is currently pending in the Superior Court of the State of California, Complex Division, County of Orange (Case No. JCCP No. 4681), plaintiff, on behalf of herself and others similarly situated, alleges that the Company is in violation of the California Civil Code for collecting personal information from customers in connection with the use of credit cards by such 15 Table of Contents customers to pay for merchandise at the Company’s stores. At trial held in January 2015, the Superior Court held that the Company was in violation of California law and set May 1, 2015 as the date for a conference to set a date for trial to determine the penalty to be assessed against the Company. The Company is unable to predict the amount of penalty that may be assessed by the court, in excess of the amount accrued, after its consideration of various factors, including, among others, how information was used, how much revenue was derived from the information, what procedures were in place to control the maintenance and dissemination of the information, the duration of the practice to collect information and other relevant factors; however, such penalty assessment could be material. As the state of the law in this area is unsettled and there are conflicting decisions in several cases brought against retailers under the Song Beverly law, the Company has not determined whether it will appeal the determination of the trial court and cannot predict whether an appeal may be successful. However, the Company intends to consider all alternatives including, among others, seeking a stay of proceedings by the trial court while the appellate court is considering an appeal in another case with similar facts, seeking to settle the matter with plaintiffs, seeking an interlocutory appeal in its own case and proceeding to trial on the penalty phase. Changes in legal and accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future, including those related to the convergence of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations and failure to comply with laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results, involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which in turn could impact our business. Our substantial indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. As of January 31, 2015, our total indebtedness was $1,250.4 million, including $1,161.5 million, inclusive of original issue discount, under our $1,200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility, pursuant to our term loan credit agreement (the Term Loan Credit Agreement) dated as of February 24, 2011, as amended, and $63.3 million under our ABL Line of Credit. Estimated cash required to make minimum debt service payments (including principal and interest) for these debt obligations amounts to approximately $51.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2016. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is to some extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing all or a portion of our debt, selling material assets or operations or raising additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to successfully carry out any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or be assured that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the ABL Line of Credit and the Term Loan Credit Agreement, may restrict us from affecting any of these alternatives. If we fail to make scheduled payments on our debt or otherwise fail to comply with our covenants, we would be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • our secured debt lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding, with respect to that debt, to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that stockholders might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of the Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • establish a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new Board of Directors at an annual meeting; • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; and • require the approval of holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock to amend the amended and restated bylaws and certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. 17 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our by-laws, or (iv) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near term, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they are able to sell their common stock for a price greater than their purchase price. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the near term. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including those under our ABL Line of Credit and Term Loan Credit Agreement, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, if stockholders purchase shares of our common stock, realization of a gain on investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The deterioration of income from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 