Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. The following are some of the more important risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. We urge investors to consider carefully the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is dependent on the U.S. residential construction industry, economy, credit markets and other important factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are highly dependent on the level of new home construction, which in turn is dependent upon a number of factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, foreclosure rates, housing inventory levels, housing demand and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, political conditions, consumer confidence, household formation, housing affordability or housing inventory levels, or a weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes and adversely affect our business. Additional headwinds may come from the efforts and proposals of lawmakers to reduce the debt of the federal government and/or solve state budget shortfalls through tax increases and/or spending cuts, and financial markets’ and businesses’ reactions to those efforts and proposals, which could impair economic growth. The housing market recovery faces significant challenges. While some of the challenges facing the housing market moderated in 2012, several remain, and these challenges could return and/or intensify to limit the extent of any recovery of or future improvement in housing market conditions. These challenges include (i) weak general economic and employment growth that, among other things, limits consumer incomes, consumer confidence and demand for homes; (ii) elevated levels of mortgage loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures that could add to an inventory of lender-owned homes that may be sold in competition with new and resale homes at low distressed prices or that generate short sales activity at such price levels; (iii) a significant number of homeowners whose outstanding principal balance on their mortgage loan exceeds the market value of their home, which undermines their ability to purchase another home that they otherwise might desire and be able to afford; (iv) volatility and uncertainty in U.S. financial, credit and consumer lending markets amid slow growth or recessionary conditions; and (v) tight lending standards and practices for mortgage loans that limit consumers’ ability to qualify for mortgage financing to purchase a home, including increased minimum credit score requirements, credit risk/mortgage loan insurance premiums and/or other fees and required down payment amounts, more conservative appraisals, higher loan-to-value ratios and extensive buyer income and asset documentation requirements. Given these factors, the present housing recovery may not continue or gain further momentum, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The present housing recovery is relative to the historically low levels of home sales and residential new construction activity experienced during the recent housing downturn. Even with the upturn in 2012, new home construction remains well below, and may not return to, the peak levels reached shortly before the housing downturn began in 2006. In addition, we operate in certain markets where new home construction lags the 8 Table of Contents housing recovery. If the present new home construction recovery stalls or does not continue at the same pace, or any or all of the negative factors described above persist or worsen, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on the new home construction market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial statements, including, but not limited to, the amount of revenues we generate and our ability to operate profitably. A decline in the economy and a deterioration in expectations regarding the housing recovery could result in our taking additional significant non-cash impairment charges, which may reduce our financial resources and flexibility and could negatively affect our earnings and reduce stockholders’ equity. We previously recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $70.0 million. We did not record any goodwill impairment charges in 2011, 2012 or 2013; however, a decline in the expectation of our future performance or deterioration in expectations regarding the timing and the extent of the recovery of new home construction and home improvement may cause us to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets, which are not determinable at this time. In addition, as a result of our acquisition strategy, we may record additional goodwill and may incur impairment charges in connection with prior and future acquisitions. If the value of goodwill or other intangible assets is impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity would be adversely affected. In addition, if future acquisitions are not successful, we may record additional unexpected impairment charges. Further, our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that we must comply with, including covenants regarding limits on our debt to total capitalization ratio. We expect any future credit facility that we may enter into would contain similar covenants. If we record additional non-cash impairment charges, our stockholders’ equity would be reduced, and our borrowing capacity under our new credit facility may be limited or we may need to seek waivers or amendments and there can be no assurance that these will be attainable on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternative financing may not be available on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates, if at all. Our business is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. Demand for our services is cyclical and highly sensitive to general and local economic conditions over which we have no control, including changes in: • the number of new home and commercial building construction starts; • short and long term interest rates; • inflation; • employment levels and job and personal income growth; • housing demand from population growth, household formation and other demographic changes; • availability and pricing of mortgage financing for homebuyers and commercial financing for developers of multi-family homes and subcontractors; • consumer confidence generally and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular; • U.S. and global financial system and credit markets stability; • private party and government mortgage loan programs and federal and state regulation, oversight and legal action regarding lending, appraisal, foreclosure and short sale practices; • federal and state personal income tax rates and provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage loan interest payments, real estate taxes and other expenses; and • federal, state and local energy efficiency programs, regulations, codes and standards. 9 Table of Contents Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business generally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular markets in which we operate. Any deterioration in economic conditions or continuation of uncertain economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business may be affected by severe weather conditions and is seasonal. Severe weather conditions, such as unusually prolonged cold conditions, rain, blizzards or hurricanes, could accelerate, delay or halt construction or installation activity. The impact of these types of events on our business may adversely impact our net revenue, cash flows from operations and results of operations. If net revenue were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our financial results would be adversely impacted. We tend to have higher sales during the second half of the year as our homebuilder customers complete construction of homes placed under contract for sale in the traditionally stronger spring selling season. In addition, some of our larger branches operate in states more impacted by winter weather and as such experience a slowdown in construction activity during the first quarter of the calendar year. This winter slowdown contributes to traditionally lower sales in our first quarter. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The building products installation industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from other national, regional and local companies. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, (ii) offer services that are deemed superior to ours, (iii) install building products at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with homebuilders and suppliers, (v) adapt more quickly to new technologies, new installation techniques or evolving customer requirements or (vi) have access to financing on more favorable terms than we can obtain in the market. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Product shortages or the loss of key suppliers could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers. We do not typically enter into long-term agreements with our suppliers but have done so from time to time. See Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, “Supply Contract Commitments,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for information on contracts for which we are currently obligated. Generally, our products are available from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In prior downturns in the housing industry, manufacturers have reduced capacity by closing plants and production lines within plants. Even if such capacity reductions are not permanent, there may be a delay in manufacturers’ ability to increase capacity in times of rising demand. If the demand for products from manufacturers and other suppliers exceeds the available supply, we may be unable to source additional products in sufficient quantity or quality in a timely manner and the prices for the products that we install could rise. These developments could affect our ability to take advantage of market opportunities and limit our growth prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our largest supplier, Owens Corning, accounted for approximately 22%, and our three largest suppliers in aggregate accounted for approximately 42% for the year ended December 31, 2013 of our material purchases. Failure by our suppliers to continue to provide us with products on commercially favorable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating 10 Table of Contents results and/or cash flows. Our inability to source materials in a timely manner could also damage our relationships with our customers. Changes in the costs of the products we install can decrease our profit margins. The principal building products that we install have been subject to price changes in the past, some of which have been significant. Our results of operations for individual quarters can be and have been hurt by a delay between the time building product cost increases are implemented and the time we are able to increase prices for our products, if at all. Our supplier purchase prices often depend on volume requirements. If we do not meet these volume requirements, our costs could increase and our margins may be adversely affected. In addition, while we have been able to achieve cost savings through volume purchasing and our relationships with suppliers, we may not be able to continue to receive advantageous pricing for the products that we install, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses. We may be unable to continue to grow our business through acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates and may face increased competition for these acquisition candidates. In addition, acquired businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations, and our business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of acquired businesses may not prove to be correct. We may also be unable to achieve expected improvements or achievements in businesses that we acquire. At any given time, we may be evaluating or in discussions with one or more acquisition candidates, including entering into non-binding letters of intent. Future acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, legal liabilities, goodwill impairments, increased interest expense and amortization expense and significant integration costs. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • our inability to manage acquired businesses or control integration costs and other costs relating to acquisitions; • potential adverse short-term effects on operating results from increased costs or otherwise; • diversion of management’s attention; • failure to retain existing key personnel of the acquired business and recruit qualified new employees at the location; • failure to successfully implement infrastructure, logistics and systems integration; • potential impairment of goodwill; • risks associated with the internal controls of acquired companies; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition and inability to realize on any indemnification claims, including with respect to environmental and immigration claims; • the risks inherent in the systems of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and • our inability to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. Our strategy could be impeded if we do not identify, or face increased competition for, suitable acquisition candidates and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows could be adversely affected if any of the foregoing factors were to occur. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims arising from the operations of our various businesses for periods prior to the dates we acquired them. We have consummated over 90 acquisitions. We may be subject to claims or liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of acquired businesses for the periods prior to our acquisition of them, including environmental, employee-related and other liabilities and claims not covered by insurance. These claims or liabilities could be significant. Our ability to seek indemnification from the former owners of our acquired businesses for these claims or liabilities may be limited by various factors, including the specific time, monetary or other limitations contained in the respective acquisition agreements and the financial ability of the former owners to satisfy our indemnification claims. In addition, insurance companies may be unwilling to cover claims that have arisen from acquired businesses or locations, or claims may exceed the coverage limits that our acquired businesses had in effect prior to the date of acquisition. If we are unable to successfully obtain insurance coverage of third-party claims or enforce our indemnification rights against the former owners, or if the former owners are unable to satisfy their obligations for any reason, including because of their current financial position, we could be held liable for the costs or obligations associated with such claims or liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our key personnel. Our business results depend largely upon the continued contributions of our chief executive officer and other members of our management team. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, other than Jeff Edwards, the Chairman of our Board and our Chief Executive Officer and President. Although our employment agreement with Mr. Edwards provides for a three-year term, he is permitted under the agreement to resign his employment at any time with only 30 days’ prior written notice to us. Also, while his employment agreement requires Mr. Edwards to devote the amount of time necessary to conduct our business and affairs, he is also permitted to engage in other business activities that do not create a conflict of interest or substantially interfere with his service to us, including non-competitive operational activities for his real estate development business. Although we maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Edwards, if he no longer serves in (or serves in some lesser capacity than) his current role, or if we lose other members of our management team, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of our securities, could be adversely affected. Our business results also depend upon our branch managers and sales personnel, including those of companies recently acquired. While we customarily sign non-competition agreements, typically lasting two years, with our branch managers and sales personnel in order to maintain key customer relationships in our markets, such agreements do not protect us fully against competition. We are dependent on attracting, training and retaining qualified employees while controlling labor costs. We must attract, train and retain a large number of qualified employees while controlling related labor costs. We compete with other businesses for these employees. Tighter labor markets, due to a recovering housing market or otherwise, may make it more difficult for us to hire and retain installers and control labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including competitive wage rates and health and other insurance costs. With the passage in 2010 of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the Affordable Care Act, we are required to provide affordable coverage, as defined in the Affordable Care Act, to all employees, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria therein. Many of these requirements will be phased in over a period of time. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Although the impact of these new legislative directives on our business is not yet certain, increased health care and insurance costs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the federal 12 Table of Contents or state minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other workplace regulations could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial targets. In addition, various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws or enforcement programs, and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider and may implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs. Although we verify the employment eligibility status of all our employees, including through participation in the “E-Verify” program where required, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. Unauthorized workers are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines, penalties and adverse publicity. Termination of a significant number of employees who are unauthorized workers may disrupt our operations and cause temporary increases in our labor costs as we train new employees. We could also become subject to fines, penalties and other costs related to claims that we did not fully comply with all recordkeeping obligations of federal and state immigration laws. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified installation personnel at economically reasonable compensation and benefits levels, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including class action lawsuits that are brought or threatened against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act, or the FLSA, and state wage and hour laws. In 2013, we were a defendant in two such lawsuits in Washington and Tennessee. In both cases, the parties have agreed to a settlement and the settlement of the lawsuit in Washington is subject to court approval. As a result, we recorded total settlement expenses of $1.4 million in Administrative and Other Operating expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. We paid $0.2 million of these costs in 2013 and recorded a liability for $1.2 million as of December 31, 2013, which represents the unpaid portion as of that date. See Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K for more information. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, workmanship warranty, casualty, construction defect, breach of contract and other claims and legal proceedings. We are subject to product liability, workmanship warranty, casualty, construction defect, breach of contract and other claims relating to the products we install that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with most of the products we install. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our employees, and homebuilders and other subcontractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Certain types of insulation, particularly spray foam applications, require our employees to handle potentially hazardous or toxic substances. While our employees who handle these and other potentially hazardous or toxic materials, including lead-based paint, receive specialized training and wear protective clothing, there is still a risk that they, or others, may be exposed to these substances. Exposure to these substances could result in significant injury to our employees and others, including site occupants, and damage to our property or the property of others, including natural resource damage. Our personnel and others at our work sites are also at risk for other workplace-related injuries, including slips and falls. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to fines, penalties and other liabilities in connection with any such injury or damage. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate 13 Table of Contents insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, we may be unable to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability, workmanship warranty, casualty, negligence, construction defect, breach of contract and other claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. In addition, lawsuits relating to construction defects typically have statutes of limitations that can run as long as ten years. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in us and our services. In addition, we are subject to various claims and lawsuits incidental to the conduct of our business in the ordinary course. Current or future claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to obtain performance and licensing bonds on commercially reasonable terms or at all in the future. Surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time. Our inability to obtain such bonds would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information, see Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Federal, state, local and other laws and regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other laws and regulations, including, among other things, worker and workplace health and safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, or DOT, and employment regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas, including workers’ compensation, may increase our expenses and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our transportation operations, upon which we depend to transport materials from our locations to job sites, are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the DOT. The DOT has broad administrative powers with respect to our transportation operations. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration or driver hours of service would increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, may increase our selling and administrative expenses and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. If we fail to comply adequately with DOT regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations and we could be subject to increased audit and compliance costs. We organize our transportation operations as a separate legal entity in certain states, including in Ohio and Indiana, in order to take advantage of sales tax exemptions relating to vehicle operating costs. If legislation is enacted that modifies or eliminates these exemptions, our costs would increase. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows would be adversely affected. In addition, the residential construction industry is subject to various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, contractors’ licensing, energy conservation and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements on the residential new construction industry or that limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Regulatory restrictions and industry standards may require us to alter our installation processes and our sourcing and otherwise increase our operating expenses and limit the availability of suitable building lots for our customers, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental regulation and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that we operate our business, including each of our locations, in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and maintain all material permits required under such laws and regulations to operate our business, we may be held liable or incur fines or penalties in connection with such requirements. As the nature of our business involves the use or handling of certain potentially hazardous or toxic substances, including spray foam applications and lead-based paint, we may be held liable for claims alleging injury or damage resulting from the release of or exposure to such substances. In addition, as owners and lessees of real property, we may be held liable for, among other things, hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos or petroleum products on, at, under or emanating from currently or formerly owned or operated properties, or any off-site disposal locations, or for any known or newly discovered environmental conditions at or relating to any of our properties, including those arising from activities conducted by previous occupants or at adjoining properties, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such release. We may be required to investigate, remove, remediate or monitor the presence or release of such hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. We may also be held liable to a governmental entity for fines and penalties or to third parties for damages, including for bodily injury, property damage and natural resource damage in connection with the presence or release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. In addition, expenditures may be required in the future as a result of releases of, or exposure to, hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions or changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation or enforcement and in certain instances, such expenditures may be material. While not having a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations, in 2011, a fire at one of our branches resulted in the run-off of hazardous materials into a nearby stream. We investigated and remediated the incident and received a no further action letter from the environmental regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the matter. Increases in union organizing activity and work stoppages could delay or reduce availability of products that we install and increase our costs. Less than one percent of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining or other similar labor agreements. However, if a larger number of our employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, our business could be negatively affected. Any inability by us to negotiate collective bargaining arrangements could cause strikes or other work stoppages, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs. If any such strikes or other work stoppages occur, or if other employees become represented by a union, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher labor costs. In addition, certain of our suppliers have unionized work forces and certain of our products are transported by unionized truckers. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns could result in slowdowns or closures of facilities where the products that we install are manufactured or could affect the ability of our suppliers to deliver such products to us. Any interruption in the production or delivery of these products could delay or reduce availability of these products and increase our costs. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and all of our operating assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We derive all of our operating income from our subsidiaries. We rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries, which are paid to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and other payments or distributions, to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends and other distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiaries and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness that our subsidiaries incur. 15 Table of Contents Increases in fuel costs could adversely affect our results of operations. The price of oil has fluctuated over the last few years, creating volatility in our fuel costs. We do not currently hedge our fuel costs. Increases in fuel costs can negatively impact our cost to deliver our products to our customers and thus increase our cost of sales. If we are unable to increase the selling price of our products to our customers to cover any increases in fuel costs, net income may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, including our web-enabled internal software technology, jobCORE. The jobCORE software provides in-depth operational and financial performance data from individual branch locations to the corporate office. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales and installation activities across locations and to manage invoicing. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages, computer viruses, unauthorized access or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or installing our products on a timely basis for our customers, which could adversely affect our reputation and customer relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar disruptions affecting the Internet. Such delays, problems or costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we operate our business through highly dispersed locations across the United States, our operations may be materially adversely affected by inconsistent practices and the operating results of individual branches may vary. We operate our business through a network of highly dispersed locations throughout the United States, supported by corporate executives and services in our headquarters, with local branch management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations and adherence to applicable local laws. Our operating structure can make it difficult for us to coordinate procedures across our operations in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our branches may require significant oversight and coordination from headquarters to support their growth. Inconsistent implementation of corporate strategy and policies at the local level could materially and adversely affect our overall profitability, business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, the operating results of an individual branch may differ from that of another branch for a variety of reasons, including market size, management practices, competitive landscape, regulatory requirements and local economic conditions. As a result, certain of our branches may experience higher or lower levels of growth than other branches. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 25% of the increase in our net revenue as compared to the same period in 2012 was generated by approximately 9% of our branches with approximately 23% of our branches, including acquired branches, accounting for 53% of the increase. Therefore, our overall financial performance and results of operations may not be indicative of the performance and results of operations of any individual branch. Restrictions in our existing revolving credit facility, or any other indebtedness we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to stockholders and the value of our common stock. Our existing revolving credit facility, or any future credit facility or other indebtedness we enter into, may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make distributions or dividends on or redeem or repurchase shares of common stock; 16 Table of Contents • make certain investments and acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • acquire, merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Our revolving credit facility contains, and any future credit facility or other debt instruments we may enter into will also likely contain, covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and meet certain tests, such as a fixed charge coverage ratio, a leverage ratio and minimum EBITDA test. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Revolving Credit Facility. Our ability to comply with those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to comply with those ratios and tests when required to do so under the applicable debt instruments. The provisions of our revolving credit facility or other debt instruments may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility, any future credit facility or other debt instruments could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders or other debt holders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our stockholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. We could manage working capital in ways that may affect our cash flow from operations. Since we aim to continuously manage our working capital, we could manage our payments to suppliers differently in the future. Changes in how we manage our payments to suppliers could decrease our cash flow from operations and increase our working capital as a percentage of sales. In addition, we have two supply contracts with minimum purchase requirements at market rates. These obligations may cause us to purchase materials earlier than we otherwise would and increase our working capital requirements. There is no guarantee that our working capital as a percentage of sales will continue to decrease or that it will not increase in the future. Our independent registered public accounting firms have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. Although we did not engage our independent registered public accounting firms to conduct an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the audits of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our independent registered public accounting firms informed us that they identified a material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting under standards established by the PCAOB. The PCAOB defines a material weakness as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified by our independent registered public accounting firms related to adjustments made in connection with their audits to our financial statements in the areas of income taxes, self-insurance reserves, stock-based compensation, accounts payable, discontinued operations, derivative accounting and lease accounting, and resulted primarily from insufficient personnel within our organization possessing an appropriate 17 Table of Contents level of knowledge, experience and training with regard to complex transactions and technical accounting matters, particularly as they relate to public companies. The material weakness resulted in a number of audit adjustments to our financial statements for the periods that were the subject of these audits. We have taken and will take a number of actions to remediate this material weakness including, but not limited to, adding experienced accounting and financial personnel, retaining third-party consultants to review our internal controls, recommend improvements to our processes, perform reviews and analysis on periodic income tax provisions and insurance reserves, and implementing improvements to our accounting policies, periodic review process, closing procedures, and consolidation process. Additional information about our remediation efforts and internal control over financial reporting are described in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Form 10-K. We cannot assure you when we will remediate such weakness, nor can we be certain of whether additional actions will be required or the costs of any such actions. We may need to take additional measures to fully mitigate these issues, and the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weakness or other material weaknesses or deficiencies will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and your investment may decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by factors, such as: • market conditions affecting the residential construction and building products industries; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in government regulations; • the announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; • changes in general economic and political conditions; • volatility in the financial markets; • results of our operations and the operations of others in our industry; • changes in interest rates; • threatened or actual litigation and government investigations; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • actions taken by our stockholders, including the sale or disposition of their shares of our common stock; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts and changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • the impact of the factors described elsewhere in this Item 1A., Risk Factors. 18 Table of Contents These and other factors may affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce the price of our common stock and materially affect the value of your investment. The obligations associated with being a public company will require significant resources and management attention. We completed our initial public offering in February 2014 and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a public company, we face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses that we had not incurred as a private company, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We expect to incur incremental costs related to operating as a public company of approximately $3.0 to $4.0 million annually, although there can be no assurance that these costs will not be higher, particularly when we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition and proxy and other information statements, and the rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the NYSE each of which imposes additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. As a public company, we are required to: • prepare and distribute periodic reports, proxy statements and other stockholder communications in compliance with the federal securities laws and the NYSE rules; • expand the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees thereof; • maintain an internal audit function; • institute more comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance functions; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above; • enhance our investor relations function; • establish new internal policies, including those relating to trading in our securities and disclosure controls and procedures; • retain additional personnel; • comply with NYSE listing standards; and • comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect these rules and regulations and changes in laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which have created uncertainty for public companies, to increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our investment in compliance with existing and evolving regulatory requirements will result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents These increased costs will require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. We also expect that it will be expensive to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and civil litigation. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. However, as a public company, we will be required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. In addition, we will be required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, at the time of our second Form 10-K, which will be for our year ending December 31, 2014. We are in the process of designing, implementing and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation, which process is time consuming, costly and complex. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness previously described or if, in the future, we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. We are an emerging growth company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies. Those exemptions include, but are not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We may take advantage of these provisions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our common stock offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this accommodation allowing for delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, we 20 Table of Contents will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock or make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have approximately 30.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. The shares of common stock are freely tradable, except for any shares of common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, the sale of which will be restricted under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, 3.0 million shares reserved for future issuance under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. Moreover, pursuant to a registration rights agreement among us and certain of our current stockholders, certain of our stockholders have the right to require us to register their shares under the Securities Act. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. Also, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Jeff Edwards and Littlejohn Management Holdings, LLC and its affiliates have significant ownership of our common stock and may have interests that conflict with those of our other stockholders. As of March 24, 2014, Jeff Edwards beneficially owns approximately 46% of our common stock and Littlejohn Management Holdings, LLC and its affiliates, collectively referred to as Littlejohn, beneficially own approximately 16% of our common stock. So long as such persons continue to hold, directly or indirectly, shares of common stock representing a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant control over our management and policies. This concentration of voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares of common stock, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The interests of Jeff Edwards and Littlejohn may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and each may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. In addition, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Jeff Edwards and Littlejohn are permitted to pursue corporate opportunities for themselves, rather than for us. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could delay, discourage or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for our stockholders to change our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which 21 Table of Contents stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of the holders of our stock or a hostile acquirer; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • a requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or upon a resolution approved by a majority of the total number of directors that we would have if there were no vacancies, and not by our stockholders; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with a stockholder owning 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which such stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors and management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, in order to reinvest in the development and growth of our business and, therefore, do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, the limits imposed by the terms of our revolving credit facility, or any then-existing debt instruments, and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, investors in our common stock may need to sell their shares to realize a return on their investment in our common stock, and investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices paid for them. If securities analysts do not publish favorable reports about us or if we, or our industry, are the subject of unfavorable commentary, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading price for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports about us that are published by analysts in the financial industry. Analysts could issue negative commentary about us or our industry, or they 22 Table of Contents could downgrade our common stock. We may also not receive sufficient research coverage or visibility in the market. Any of these factors could result in the decline of the trading price of our common stock, causing investors in our common stock to lose all or a portion of their investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 