Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control, including changes in federal, state and local education funding, general economic conditions and/or changes in the state procurement process. The performance and growth of our U.S. educational comprehensive curriculum, supplemental and assessment businesses depend in part on federal and state education funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational programs. State, local and municipal finances were and continue to be adversely affected by the recent U.S. economic recession and are affected by general economic conditions and factors outside of our control, as well as increasing costs and financial liabilities of under-funded public pension plans. In response to general economic conditions or budget shortfalls, states and districts may reduce educational spending to protect against existing or expected economic conditions or seek cost savings to mitigate budget deficits. Most public school districts, the primary customers for K-12 products and services, depend largely on state and local funding to purchase materials. In school districts in states that primarily rely on local tax proceeds, significant reductions in those proceeds for any reason can severely restrict district purchases of instructional materials. In districts and states that primarily rely on state funding for instructional materials, a reduction in state funds or loosening of restrictions on the use of those funds may reduce net sales. Additionally, many school districts receive substantial amounts through Federal education programs, funding for which may be reduced as a result of the Congressional budget actions. Federal and/or state legislative changes can also affect the funding available for educational expenditure, which include the impact of education reform such as the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (“ESEA”) and the implementation of Common Core State Standards. Existing programs and funding streams could be changed or eliminated in connection with legislation to reauthorize the ESEA and/or the federal appropriations process, in ways that could negatively affect demand and sources of funding for our products and services. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by many factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to, delays in the timing of adoptions, changes in curricula and changes in student testing processes. There can be no assurances that states or districts will have sufficient funding to purchase our products and services, that we will win their business in our competitive marketplace or that schools or districts that have historically purchased our products and services will do so again in the future. There is considerable political controversy in many states surrounding the adoption and implementation of Common Core State Standards. Legislation has been introduced in a number of states to drop Common Core standards, and some states are considering revisions to and/or rebranding of the standards. These developments could disrupt local adoptions of instructional materials and require modifications to our programs offered for sale in states that adopt such changes. Similarly, changes in the state procurement process for textbooks, supplemental materials and student tests, particularly in adoption states, can also affect our markets and sales. Florida and Louisiana, for example, are considering legislation that would affect the adoption cycle and review process in those states. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from sales of K-12 instructional materials pursuant to cyclical adoption schedules. Due to the revolving and staggered nature of state adoption schedules, sales of K-12 instructional materials have traditionally been cyclical, with some years offering more sales opportunities than others. In addition, changes in curricula and changes in the student testing processes can negatively affect our programs and therefore the size of our market in any given year. For example, over the next few years, adoptions are scheduled in the primary subjects of reading, language arts and literature, social studies and mathematics in, among others, the states of California, Texas and Florida, the three largest adoption states. The inability to succeed in these states, or reductions in their anticipated funding levels, could materially and adversely affect net sales for the year of adoption and subsequent years. Allowing districts flexibility to use state funds previously dedicated exclusively to the purchase of instructional materials and other items such as technology hardware and training could adversely affect district expenditures on state-adopted instructional materials in the future. 17 Table of Contents Decreases in federal and state education funding and negative trends or changes in general economic conditions can have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. In order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new content and new ways to deliver our products and services. These investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. In particular, in the context of our current focus on key digital opportunities, including e-books, the market is evolving and we may be unsuccessful in establishing ourselves as a significant competitor. New distribution channels, such as digital platforms, the internet, online retailers and delivery platforms (e.g., tablets and e-readers), present both threats and opportunities to our traditional publishing models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. Our operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and our business is dependent on our results of operations for the third quarter. Our business is seasonal. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived approximately 88% of net sales from our Education Segment. For sales of educational products, purchases typically are made primarily in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, in preparation for the beginning of the school year, though testing net sales are primarily generated in the second and fourth quarters. We typically realize a significant portion of net sales during the third quarter, making third-quarter results material to full-year performance. This sales seasonality affects operating cash flow from quarter to quarter. We normally incur a net cash deficit from all of our activities through the middle of the third quarter of the year. In addition, changes in our customers’ ordering patterns may impact the comparison of results in a quarter with the same quarter of the previous year, in a quarter with the consecutive quarter or a fiscal year with the prior fiscal year. We may not be able to identify successful business models for generating sales of technology-enabled programs. Furthermore, customers’ expectations for the number and sophistication of technology-enabled programs that are given to them at no additional charge may increase, as may development costs. The core curriculum elementary school, core curriculum secondary school and educational testing customers have become accustomed to being given technology-enabled products at no additional charge from publishers, such as us, as incentives to adopt programs and other products. The sophistication and expense of technology-enabled products continues to grow. Our profitability may decrease materially if we are unable to realize sales of these products, customers continue to expect/insist on an increasing number of technology-enabled materials of increasing quality being given to them, or costs of these products continue to rise. Agreements with Resellers. We have entered into agreements with resellers from time to time pertaining to certain defined products and channels. These agreements have been both exclusive and non-exclusive and have pertained to specific products as well as specific channels. Depending on the timing of when orders with resellers occur, an individual transaction with a reseller could potentially be material to the quarter or year in which it occurs. Furthermore, there is no assurance that future orders from resellers will occur within similar timeframes as past orders or be of similar magnitude. Some of our agreements have performance metrics which allow for one or both parties to terminate the agreement. If such termination were to occur, our sales could be materially impacted. Receivables to our two largest resellers comprised approximately 40% of our December 31, 2013 accounts receivable balance prior to allowances for book returns. If such resellers are unable to remit contractual payments when due or at all, our financial results and cash position for the quarter and year could be materially impacted. 18 Table of Contents Our business will be impacted by the rate of and state of technological change, including the digital evolution and other disruptive technologies, and the presence and development of open-sourced content could continue to increase, which could adversely affect our revenue. The publishing industry has been impacted by the digitalization of content and proliferation of distribution channels, either over the internet, or via other electronic means, replacing traditional print formats. The digital migration brings the need for change in product distribution, consumers’ perception of value and the publisher’s position between retailers and authors. Such digitalization increases competitive threats both from large media players and from smaller businesses, online and mobile portals. If we are unable to adapt and transition to the move to digitalization at the rate of our competitors, our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace will be affected. In recent years there have been initiatives by non-profit organizations such as the Gates Foundation and the Hewlett Foundation to develop educational content that can be “open sourced” and made available to educational institutions for free or nominal cost. To the extent that such open sourced content is developed and made available to educational customers and is competitive with our instructional materials, our sales opportunities and net sales could be adversely affected. Technological changes and the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information and materials may also affect changes in consumer behavior and expectations. Public and private sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and lower pricing for digital products may reduce demand and impact the prices we can charge for our products and services. To the extent that technological changes and the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information and materials limit the prices we can charge or demand for our products and services, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Changes in product distribution channels and/or customer bankruptcy may restrict our ability to grow and affect our profitability in our Trade Publishing segment. New distribution channels such as digital formats, the internet, online retailers, growing delivery platforms (e.g., tablets and e-readers), combined with the concentration of retailer power, pose threats and provide opportunities to our traditional consumer publishing models in our Trade Publishing segment, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. The economic slowdown combined with the trend to e-books has created contraction in the consumer books retail market that has increased the risk of bankruptcy of major retail customers. Additional bankruptcies of traditional “bricks and mortar” retailers of Trade Publishing could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Expansion of our investments and business outside of our traditional core U.S. market may result in lower than expected returns and incremental risks. To take advantage of international growth opportunities and to reduce our reliance on our core U.S. market, we are increasing our investments in a number of countries and emerging markets, including Asia and the Middle East, some of which are inherently more risky than our investments in the U.S. market. Political, economic, currency, reputational and corporate governance risks, including fraud, as well as unmanaged expansion are all factors which could limit our returns on investments made in these markets. For example, current political instability in the Middle East has caused uncertainty in the region, which could affect our results of operations in the region. Also, certain international customers require longer payment terms, increasing our credit risk. As we expand internationally, these risks will become more pertinent to us and could have a bigger impact on our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, with significant established competitors, such as Pearson Education, Inc., McGraw Hill Education, Cengage Learning, Inc., Scholastic Corporation and K12 Inc. These markets continue to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. Profitability is affected by developments in our markets beyond our control, including: changing U.S. federal and state standards for educational materials; rising development costs due to customers’ requirements for more customized 19 Table of Contents instructional materials and assessment programs; changes in prevailing educational and testing methods and philosophies; higher technology costs due to the trend toward delivering more educational content in both traditional print and electronic formats; market acceptance of new technology products, including online or computer-based testing; an increase in the amount of materials given away in the K-12 markets as part of a bundled pack; the impact of the expected increase in turnover of K-12 teachers and instructors on the market acceptance of our products; customer consolidation in the retail and wholesale trade book market and the increased dependence on fewer but stronger customers; rising advances for popular authors and market pressures to maintain competitive retail pricing; a material increase in product returns or in certain costs such as paper; and overall uncertain economic issues that affect all markets. We cannot predict with certainty the changes that may occur and the effect of those changes on the competitiveness of our businesses, and the acceleration of any of these developments may materially and adversely affect our profitability. The means of delivering our products may be subject to rapid technological change. Although we have undertaken several initiatives and invested significant amounts of capital to adapt to and benefit from these changes, we cannot predict whether technological innovations will, in the future, make some of our products, particularly those printed in traditional formats, wholly or partially obsolete. If this were to occur, we might be required to invest significant resources to further adapt to the changing competitive environment. In addition, we cannot predict whether end customers will have sufficient funding to purchase the equipment needed to use our new technology products. In order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. These investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. We could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. There is a risk that technology companies may offer educational materials that compete with our products. While our educational content is protected by copyright law, there is nothing to prevent technology companies from developing their own educational digital products and offering educational content to schools. Technology companies are free to distribute materials with and on their technology devices and platforms. Many technology companies have substantial resources that they could devote to expand their business, including the development of educational digital products. Furthermore, while we have entered into digital distribution agreements with a number of technology companies, our agreements are non-exclusive arrangements and there is nothing to prevent such technology companies from developing and distributing other educational content to the K-12 market. There is a risk that a technology company with significant resources could license or acquire their own educational content and compete with us, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also a risk of further disintermediation, which is the occurrence of state, district and other customers contracting directly with technology companies. As a result, there is a risk that technology companies may own direct relationships with our customers, and accordingly, they may have a significant influence over the pricing and distribution strategies for digital and print education materials. Our history of operations includes periods of operating and net losses, and we may incur operating and net losses in the future. Our significant net losses and our significant amount of indebtedness led us to declare bankruptcy in 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we generated operating losses of $86.6 million, $120.7 million and $2,037.1 million, respectively, and net losses of $111.2 million, $87.1 million, and $2,182.4 million, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for more information regarding our results of operations during these periods. If we continue to suffer operating and net losses, the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly. 20 Table of Contents Our net losses in recent years were impacted from general economic conditions, reductions in significant markets, federal, state and local budget shortfalls and the contraction of spending throughout most states, among other things. In addition, we had a significant amount of indebtedness in recent fiscal years. During May 2012, as a result of our financial position, results of operations and significant amount of indebtedness, we filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. On June 22, 2012, we emerged from bankruptcy pursuant to a pre-packaged plan of reorganization. Although we have significantly less interest expense as a result of our emergence from bankruptcy and have decreased our selling and administrative expenses, we may not generate sufficient net sales in future periods to pay for all of our operating or other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights may be limited, which may harm our competitive position and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products are largely comprised of intellectual property content delivered through a variety of media, including books and digital and web-based media. We rely on copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products. However, we cannot make assurances that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We conduct business in other countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this uncertainty could affect future growth. Moreover, despite the existence of copyright and trademark protection under applicable laws, third parties may nonetheless violate our intellectual property rights, and our ability to remedy such violations, particularly in foreign countries, may be limited. In addition, the copying and distribution of content over the Internet creates additional challenges for us in protecting our proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position may be harmed and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in markets which are dependent on Information Technology (“IT”) systems and technological change. Our business is dependent on information technology. We either provide software and/or internet based services to our customers or we use complex IT systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in infrastructure and as we move our products and services to an increasingly digital delivery platform. We face several technological risks associated with software product development and service delivery in our educational businesses, information technology security (including virus and hacker attacks), e-commerce, enterprise resource planning, system implementations and upgrades. Our growth strategy includes a consumer e-commerce strategy and an integrated solutions strategy that further subjects us to technological risks. If our e-commerce and integrated solutions expansion strategy is not successful, our business and growth prospects may be adversely affected. Additionally, the failure to recruit and retain staff with relevant skills may constrain our ability to grow as we combine traditional publishing products with online service offerings. We rely on third-party software development as part of our digital platform. Some of the technologies and software that compose our instruction and assessment technologies are developed by third parties. We rely on those third parties for the development of future components and modules. Thus, we face risks associated with software product development and the ability of those third parties to meet our needs and their obligations under our contracts with them. A major data privacy breach or unanticipated IT system failure may cause reputational damage to our brands and financial loss. Across our businesses we hold large volumes of personal data, including that of employees, customers and students. Failure to adequately protect such personal data could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs, reputational damage, potential cancellation of existing contracts and inability to compete for future business. We have policies, processes, internal controls and cybersecurity mechanisms in place to ensure the stability of our 21 Table of Contents information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but no mechanisms are entirely free from failure and we have no guarantee that our security mechanisms will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or breaches in security. We may not be able to complete, or achieve the expected benefits from, any future acquisitions, which could materially and adversely affect our growth. We have at times used acquisitions as a means of expanding our business and expect that we will continue to do so. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, anticipated operating advantages and cost savings may not be realized. The acquisition and integration of companies involve a number of risks, including: use of available cash, new borrowings or borrowings under our revolving credit facility to consummate the acquisition; demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; diversion of management’s attention from existing operations to the integration of acquired companies; integration of companies existing systems into our systems; difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; and potential adverse effects on our operating results. We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies achieved separately. Successful integration of acquired operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we would hope to achieve from acquisitions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain or attract the key management, creative, editorial and sales personnel that we need to remain competitive and grow. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain key management and other personnel. We operate in a number of highly visible industry segments where there is intense competition for experienced and highly effective individuals, including authors. Our successful operations in these segments may increase the market visibility of members of key management, creative and editorial teams and result in their recruitment by other businesses. There can be no assurance that we can continue to attract and retain the necessary talented employees, including executive officers and other key members of management and, if we fail to do so, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, our sales personnel make up approximately 24% of our employees, and our business results depend largely upon the experience, knowledge of local market dynamics and long-standing customer relationships of such personnel. Our inability to retain or hire effective sales people at economically reasonable compensation levels could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably and grow our business. A significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our major expenses include employee compensation and printing, paper and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. We offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. We could experience changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension laws and regulations. Paper is one of our principal raw materials and, for the year ended December 31, 2013, our paper purchases totaled approximately $54 million while our manufacturing costs totaled approximately $261 million. As a result, our business may be negatively impacted by an increase in paper prices. Paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by us. The price of 22 Table of Contents paper may fluctuate significantly in the future, and changes in the market supply of or demand for paper could affect delivery times and prices. Paper suppliers may consolidate and as a result, there may be future shortfalls in supplies necessary to meet the demands of the entire marketplace. We may need to find alternative sources for paper from time to time. Our books and workbooks are printed by third parties and we typically have multi-year contracts for the production of books and workbooks. Increases in any of our operating costs and expenses could materially and adversely affect our profitability and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives as well as significant investments in the development of programs for the K-12 marketplace. Although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. We also have other significant operating costs, and unanticipated increases in these costs could adversely affect our operating margins. Higher energy costs and other factors affecting the cost of publishing, transporting and distributing our products could adversely affect our financial results. Our inability to absorb the impact of increases in paper costs and other costs or any strategic determination not to pass on all or a portion of these increases to customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. Litigation alleging infringement of copyrights and other intellectual property rights has become extensive in the educational publishing industry. At present, there are various suits pending or threatened which claim that we exceeded the print run limitation or other restrictions in licenses granted to us to reproduce photographs in our instructional materials. A number of similar claims against us have already been settled. While management does not expect any of these matters to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have insurance in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles as management believes is reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that our liability insurance will cover all events or that the limits of coverage will be sufficient to fully cover all potential liabilities. Operational disruption to our business caused by a major disaster, external threats or the loss of one of our two key third party print vendors could restrict our ability to supply products and services to our customers. Across all our businesses, we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centers, data centers and large office facilities as well as relationships with third party print vendors. We have also outsourced some support functions, including application maintenance support, to third party providers. Failure to recover from a major disaster (such as fire, flood or other natural disaster) at a key facility or the disruption of supply from a key third party vendor, developer or distributor (e.g., due to bankruptcy) could restrict our ability to service our customers. External threats, such as terrorist attacks, strikes, weather and political upheaval, could affect our business and employees, disrupting our daily business activities. We currently rely on two key third-party print vendors to handle approximately 85% of our printing requirements, and we expect a small number of print vendors will continue to account for a substantial portion of our printing requirements for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a significant adverse change in our relationships with, our key print vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business and cost of sales. There can be no assurance that our relationships with our print vendors will continue or that their businesses or operations will not be affected by major disasters or external factors. If we were to lose one of our two key print vendors, if our relationships with these vendors were to adversely change or if their businesses were impacted by general economic conditions or the factors described above, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to contingent liabilities that may affect liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations. In the ordinary course of business, we issue performance-related surety bonds and letters of credit posted as security for our operating activities, some of which obligate us to make payments if we fail to perform under certain contracts in connection with the sale of instructional materials and assessment tests. The surety bonds are partially backstopped by letters of credit. As of December 31, 2013, our contingent liability for all letters of credit was approximately $19.7 million, of which $2.4 million were issued to backstop $23.0 million of surety bonds. The letters of credit reduce the borrowing availability on our revolving credit facility, which could affect liquidity and, therefore, our ability to meet our obligations. We may increase the number and amount of contracts that require the use of letters of credit, which may further restrict liquidity and, therefore, our ability to meet our obligations in the future. We may be adversely affected by significant changes in interest rates. Our financing indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, bears interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2013, we had $245.6 million of aggregate principal amount indebtedness outstanding under our term loan facility that bears interest at a variable rate. An increase or decrease of 1% in the interest rate will change our interest expense by approximately $2.5 million on an annual basis. We also have up to $250.0 million of borrowing availability, subject to borrowing base availability, under our revolving credit facility, and borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate. Assuming that the revolving credit facility is fully drawn, an increase or decrease of 1% in the interest rate will change our interest expense associated with the revolving credit facility by $2.5 million on an annual basis. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. If we enter into agreements limiting exposure to higher interest rates in the future, these agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and other growth initiatives depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our term loan facility and revolving credit facility restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the credit agreements do and the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness may restrict, but will not completely prohibit, us from doing so. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $188.4 million of borrowing base availability under our revolving credit facility. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to you in the event of a liquidation. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. 24 Table of Contents We may record future goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles impairment charges related to one or more of our reporting units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles asset balances for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates. Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. Declines in the future performance and cash flows of the reporting unit or small changes in other key assumptions may result future goodwill impairment charges, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $531.8 million and $440.0 million and $520.1 million and $440.5 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. There was no goodwill impairment charge for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. The goodwill impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1,442.5 million. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, impairment charges for indefinite-lived intangible assets were $0.5 million, $5.0 million, and $161.0 million respectively. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress the price of our common stock. Additional sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. As of March 14, 2014, we had 139,994,391 shares of common stock issued and outstanding that were freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), except for any shares held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates (as that term is defined in the Securities Act), which are restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. While each of our executive officers and directors and certain of our existing stockholders holding approximately 119 million shares of our outstanding common stock signed “lock-up” agreements with the underwriters for our initial public offering, the underwriters are entitled to waive these lock-up provisions at their discretion and the restrictions in the lock-up agreements expire as of May 13, 2014, subject to extension under certain limited circumstances. The sale of such shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. Pursuant to the Company’s investor rights agreement certain of our stockholders have certain demand and piggyback rights that may require us to file registration statements registering their common stock or to include sales of such common stock in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Any shares of common stock sold under these registration statements will be freely tradable in the public market. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of common stock is sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Additionally, we will bear all expenses in connection with any such registrations, except that the selling stockholders may be responsible for their pro rata shares of underwriters’ fees, commissions and discounts (except for the first underwritten demand registration or shelf takedown by stockholders), stock transfer taxes and certain legal expenses. Affiliates of Paulson & Co., Inc. own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and will have the right to nominate one director for election to our board of directors after this offering. As of March 14, 2014, investment funds and managed accounts affiliated with Paulson & Co., Inc. (“Paulson”) beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 22.8% of our outstanding common stock. We have entered into an amended and restated director nomination agreement with these stockholders under which Paulson has the right to nominate one director for election to our board of directors so long as Paulson holds at 25 Table of Contents least 15% of our issued and outstanding common stock, and we have agreed to take certain actions in furtherance of Paulson’s rights under the director nomination agreement. In addition, if requested by Paulson, we have agreed to cause the director nominated by Paulson to be designated as a member of each committee of our board of directors unless the designation would violate legal restrictions or the rules and regulations of the national securities exchange on which our common stock is listed As a result of their ownership interests and director nomination rights, the stockholders affiliated with Paulson may have the ability to influence the outcome of matters that require approval of our stockholders or to otherwise influence the Company. The interests of these stockholders might conflict with or differ from other stockholder interests, and it may cause us to pursue transactions or take actions that could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions or actions may involve risks to other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 