ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to a number of risks potentially impacting its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following are the most significant risk factors that affect the Company. Any one or more of these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on the business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, in addition to presenting other possible adverse consequences, which are described below. Business Risks Adverse economic conditions in the United States and worldwide may negatively impact our results. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown such as the recent economic downturn, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions, and losses generally increase while proceeds from auction sales decrease. These periods may also be accompanied by increased unemployment rates, decreased consumer demand for automobiles and other consumer products, and declining values of automobiles and other consumer products securing outstanding accounts, which weaken collateral coverage and increase the amount of a loss in the event of default. Additionally, higher gasoline prices, unstable real estate values, reset of adjustable rate mortgages to higher interest rates, general availability of consumer credit, or other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could increase loss frequency and decrease consumer demand for automobiles and other consumer products as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles and other consumer products. Because our historical focus has been predominantly on nonprime consumers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions, and losses on these loans could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. Furthermore, our business is significantly affected by monetary and regulatory policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on us through interest rate changes, costs of compliance with increased regulation, and other factors. Although market conditions have improved, unemployment in the United States remains at elevated levels, and conditions remain challenging for financial institutions. Furthermore, certain Eurozone member countries have fiscal outlays that exceed their fiscal revenue, which has raised concerns about such countries’ abilities to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. A weakened European economy could undermine investor confidence in European financial institutions and the stability of European member economies. Notwithstanding its geographic diversification, this could adversely impact Santander, with whom we have a significant relationship. Such events could also negatively affect U.S.-based financial institutions, counterparties with which we do business, and the stability of the global financial markets. Disruptions in the global financial markets have also adversely affected the corporate bond markets, debt and equity underwriting, and other elements of the financial markets. In recent years, downgrades of the sovereign debt of some European countries have resulted in increased volatility in capital markets and have caused some lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide funding to certain borrowers, including other financial institutions. The impact on available credit, increased volatility in the financial markets, and reduced business activity has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our businesses, capital, liquidity, or other financial conditions and results of operations, and access to credit. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how those economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The degree of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process and the quality of our assets. 20 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted if our access to funding is reduced. We rely upon our ability to sell securities in the ABS market and upon our ability to access various credit facilities to fund our operations. The ABS market, along with credit markets in general, experienced unprecedented disruptions during the recent economic downturn. Although market conditions have improved since 2009, for a number of years following the economic downturn, certain issuers experienced increased risk premiums while there was a relatively lower level of investor demand for certain ABS (particularly those securities backed by nonprime collateral). In addition, the risk of volatility surrounding the global economic system and uncertainty surrounding regulatory reforms such as the Dodd-Frank Act continue to create uncertainty around access to the capital markets. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in selling securities in the ABS market. Adverse changes in our ABS program or in the ABS market generally could materially adversely affect our ability to securitize loans on a timely basis or upon terms acceptable to us. This could increase our cost of funding, reduce our margins or cause us to hold assets until investor demand improves. We also depend on various credit facilities and flow agreements to fund our future liquidity needs. We cannot guarantee that these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates, on reasonable terms, or at all. As our volume of loan acquisitions and originations increases, especially due to our recent relationship with Chrysler, we will require the expansion of our borrowing capacity on our existing credit facilities and flow agreements or the addition of new credit facilities and flow agreements. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit, the financial strength and strategic objectives of Santander and the other banks that participate in our credit facilities and flow agreements, and the availability of bank liquidity in general. We may also experience the occurrence of events of default or breach of financial covenants, which could reduce our access to bank funding. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments, or the liquidation of certain assets. We have not experienced a significant increase in risk premiums or cost of funding to date, but we are not isolated from general market conditions that may affect issuers of ABS and other borrowers and we could experience increased risk premiums or funding costs in the future. In addition, if the sources of funding described above are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, we may have to curtail or suspend our loan acquisition and origination activities. Downsizing the scale of our business would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. We face significant risks in implementing our growth strategy, some of which are outside our control. We intend to continue our growth strategy to (i) expand our vehicle finance franchise by increasing market penetration via the number and depth of our relationships in the vehicle finance market, pursuing additional relationships with OEMs, and expanding our direct-to-consumer footprint and (ii) grow our unsecured consumer lending platform. Our ability to execute this growth strategy is subject to significant risks, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the inherent uncertainty regarding general economic conditions; • our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans; • the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate, and, to the extent applicable, federal laws and regulations, which are subject to change at any time; • the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on our ability to attract new customers; • our ability to recruit qualified personnel, in particular in areas where we face a great deal of competition; and • our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits, or licenses that may be required on a timely basis. 21 Table of Contents Our recent agreement with Chrysler may not result in currently anticipated levels of growth and is subject to certain performance conditions that could result in termination of the agreement. In February 2013, we entered into a ten-year Master Private Label Financing Agreement (the “Chrysler Agreement”) with Chrysler whereby we launched the Chrysler Capital brand, which originates private-label loans and leases to facilitate the purchase of Chrysler vehicles by consumers and Chrysler-franchised automotive dealers. The financing services that we provide under the Chrysler Agreement, which launched May 1, 2013, include credit lines to finance Chrysler-franchised dealers’ acquisitions of vehicles and other products that Chrysler sells or distributes, automotive loans and leases to finance consumer acquisitions of new and used vehicles at Chrysler-franchised dealerships, financing for commercial and fleet customers, and ancillary services. In addition, we will offer dealers dealer loan financing, construction loans, real estate loans, working capital loans, and revolving lines of credit. In accordance with the terms of the Chrysler Agreement, in May 2013 we paid Chrysler a $150 million upfront, nonrefundable payment, which will be amortized over ten years but would be recognized as expense immediately if the Chrysler Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms. As part of the Chrysler Agreement, we received limited exclusivity rights to participate in specified minimum percentages of certain of Chrysler’s financing incentive programs, which include loan rate subvention and automotive lease residual support subvention. We have committed to certain revenue sharing arrangements, as well as to considering future revenue sharing opportunities. We will bear the risk of loss on loans originated pursuant to the Chrysler Agreement, but Chrysler will share in any residual gains and losses in respect of automotive leases, subject to specific provisions in the Chrysler Agreement, including limitations on our participation in gains and losses. In addition, under the Chrysler Agreement, Chrysler has the option to acquire, for fair market value, an equity participation in an operating entity through which the financial services contemplated by the Chrysler Agreement are offered and provided, through either an equity interest in the new entity or participation in a joint venture or other similar business relationship or structure. There is no maximum limit on the size of Chrysler’s potential equity participation. Although the Chrysler Agreement contains provisions that are designed to address a situation in which the parties disagree on the fair market value of the equity participation interest, there is a risk that we ultimately receive less than what we believe to be the fair market value for such interest. Under the Chrysler Agreement, we have agreed to specific transition milestones, including market penetration rates, approval rates, and staffing and service milestones for the initial year following launch. If the transition milestones are not met in the first year, the agreement will terminate and we will lose the ability to operate as Chrysler Capital. If the transition milestones are met, the Chrysler Agreement will have a ten-year term, subject to early termination in certain circumstances, including the failure by either party to comply with certain of their ongoing obligations under the Chrysler Agreement. In addition, Chrysler may also terminate the agreement, among other circumstances, if (i) we fail to meet certain performance metrics, including certain penetration and approval rate targets, during the term of the agreement, (ii) a person other than Santander and its affiliates or our other stockholders owns 20% or more of our common stock and Santander and its affiliates own fewer shares of common stock than such person, (iii) we become, control, or become controlled by, an OEM that competes with Chrysler or (iv) if certain of our credit facilities become impaired. The loans and leases originated through Chrysler Capital are expected to provide us with the majority of our projected growth over the next several years. Our ability to realize the full strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with Chrysler depends in part on the successful development of our Chrysler Capital business, which will require a significant amount of management’s time and effort. If we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our relationship with Chrysler, or if the Chrysler Agreement were to terminate, our ability to generate or grow revenues could be reduced, and we may not be able to implement our business strategy, which would negatively impact our future growth. 22 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in developing and maintaining relationships with automobile dealerships. Our ability to acquire loans and automotive leases is reliant on our relationships with automotive dealers. In particular, our automotive finance operations depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable automotive dealers that direct customers to our offices or originate loans at the point-of-sale, which we subsequently purchase. Although we have relationships with certain automotive dealers, none of our relationships are exclusive and some of them are newly established and they may be terminated at any time. As a result of the recent economic downturn and contraction of credit to both dealers and their customers, there was an increase in dealership closures and our existing dealer base experienced decreased sales and loan volume in the past and may experience decreased sales and loan volume in the future, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A reduction in demand for our products and failure by us to adapt to such reduction could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The demand for the products we offer may be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences or financial conditions, regulatory restrictions that decrease customer access to particular products, or the availability of competing products. Should we fail to adapt to significant changes in our customers’ demand for, or access to, our products, our revenues could decrease significantly and our operations could be harmed. Even if we do make changes to existing products or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist such changes or may reject such products. Moreover, the effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time, and, by that time, it may be too late to make further modifications to such product without causing further harm to our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations depend on the credit performance of our loans. As of December 31, 2013, over 84% of our vehicle consumer loans and over 69% of our unsecured consumer loans are nonprime receivables with obligors who do not qualify for conventional consumer finance products as a result of, among other things, a lack of or adverse credit history, low income levels, and/or the inability to provide adequate down payments. While underwriting guidelines were designed to establish that, notwithstanding such factors, the obligor would be a reasonable credit risk, the receivables nonetheless will experience higher default rates than a portfolio of obligations of prime obligors. In the event of such a default on an auto loan, generally the most practical alternative is repossession of the financed vehicle, although the collateral value of the vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding account balance and costs of recovery. Repossessions and foreclosure sales that do not yield sufficient proceeds to repay the receivables in full could result in losses on those receivables. We repossessed 181,721 vehicles, incurring $1.25 billion in net losses, during the year ended December 31, 2013, of which 171,924 repossessions and $1.19 billion of net losses were on nonprime receivables. We experienced a default rate of 6.7% for nonprime receivables and 2.5% for prime receivables during the year ended December 31, 2013. From time to time we are the subject of unfavorable news or editorial coverage and we, like many peer companies, are the subject of various complaint websites in connection with our repossession and collection activities. Regardless of merit, this type of negative publicity could damage our reputation and lead consumers to choose other consumer finance companies. This could, in turn, lead to decreased business which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. We do not believe we have experienced any such impact as our lending is primarily indirect, with the end consumer interacting directly with a dealer rather than the finance company. In addition, our prime portfolio is rapidly growing. While prime portfolios typically have lower default rates than nonprime portfolios, we have less ability to make risk adjustments to the pricing of prime loans compared to 23 Table of Contents nonprime loans. As a result, a larger proportion of our business will consist of loans with respect to which we have less flexibility to adjust pricing to absorb losses. As a result of these factors, we may sustain higher losses than anticipated in our prime portfolio. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In deciding whether to approve loans or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties in our retail lending and commercial lending businesses, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, another third party, or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Our controls and processes may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Loss of our key management or other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could negatively impact our business. The successful implementation of our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to retain our experienced management team and key employees and on our ability to attract appropriately qualified new personnel as well as have an effective succession planning framework in place. For instance, our Chief Executive Officer is one of the founders of SCUSA and has extensive experience in the vehicle finance industry. He has a proven track record of successfully operating our business, including by leading us through the recent economic downturn. The loss of any key member of our management team or other key employees could hinder or delay our ability to implement our growth strategy effectively. Further, if we are unable to attract appropriately qualified new personnel as we expand, we may not be successful in implementing our growth strategy. In either instance, our profitability and financial performance could be adversely affected. See “Management” for more detail on our executive officers. Future changes in our relationship with Santander may adversely affect our operations. Santander, through SHUSA, owns 210,995,049 shares (approximately 60.5%) of our common stock. We rely on our relationship with Santander, through SHUSA, for several competitive advantages including relationships with OEMs and regulatory best practices. Santander also provides us with significant funding support, through both committed liquidity and opportunistic extensions of credit. During the recent financial downturn, Santander and its affiliates provided us with over $6 billion in financing that enabled us to pursue several acquisitions and/or conversions of vehicle loan portfolios at a time when most major banks were curtailing or eliminating their commercial lending activities. If Santander or SHUSA elects not to provide such support or provide it to the same degree, we may not be able to replace such support ourselves or to obtain substitute arrangements with third parties. We may be unable to obtain such support because of financial or other constraints or be unable to implement substitute arrangements on a timely basis on terms that are comparable, or at all, which could adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, subject to certain limitations in the shareholders agreement that was entered into among us and certain of our shareholders, including SHUSA, Auto Finance Holdings and DDFS (the “Shareholders Agreement”), Santander is permitted to sell its interest in us. If Santander reduces its equity interest in us, it may be less willing to provide us with the support it has provided in the past. In addition, our right to use the Santander name is on the basis of a non-exclusive, royalty-free, and non-transferable license from Santander, and 24 Table of Contents further only extends to uses in connection with our current and future operations within the United States. Santander may terminate such license at any time Santander ceases to own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of our common stock. If we were required to change our name, we would incur the administrative costs and time associated with revising legal documents and marketing materials, and also may experience loss of brand and loss of business or loss of funding due to consumers’ and banks’ relative lack of familiarity with our new name. Additionally, Chrysler may terminate the Chrysler Agreement if a person other than Santander and its affiliates or our other stockholders owns 20% or more of our common stock and Santander and its affiliates own fewer shares of common stock than such person. Santander has provided guarantees on the covenants, agreements, and our obligations under the governing documents of our warehouse facilities and privately issued amortizing notes. These guarantees are limited to our obligations as servicer. Some terms of our credit agreements are influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings of Santander. If Santander were to suffer credit ratings downgrades or other adverse financial developments, we could be negatively impacted, either directly or indirectly. Santander’s short-term credit ratings downgrades in 2012, from A-1 to A-2 (Standard & Poor’s) and from P-1 to P-2 (Moody’s), did not directly impact our cost of funds. However, due to the contractual terms of certain of our debt agreements, these downgrades resulted in the loss of our ability to commingle funds. The loss of commingling increased the amount of funds we were required to borrow, thereby indirectly raising our cost of funds by approximately $1 million per month. In addition, because of the methodologies applied by credit ratings agencies, our securitization ratings in our ABS offerings are indirectly tied to Santander’s credit ratings. Santander applies certain standardized banking policies, procedures and standards across its affiliated entities, including with respect to internal audit, credit approval, governance, risk management, and compensation practices. We currently follow certain of these Santander policies and may in the future become subject to additional Santander policies, procedures and standards, which could result in changes to our practices. It is also possible that our continuing relationship with Santander or SHUSA could reduce the willingness of other banks to develop relationships with us due to general competitive dynamics among such banks. Negative changes in the business of the OEMs with which we have strategic relationships, including Chrysler, could adversely affect our business. A significant adverse change in Chrysler’s or other automotive manufacturers’ business, including (i) significant adverse changes in their respective liquidity position and access to the capital markets, (ii) the production or sale of Chrysler or other automotive manufacturers’ vehicles (including the effects of any product recalls), (iii) the quality or resale value of Chrysler or other vehicles, (iv) the use of marketing incentives, (v) Chrysler’s or other automotive manufacturers’ relationships with their key suppliers, or (vi) Chrysler’s or other automotive manufacturers’ respective relationships with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions and other factors impacting automotive manufacturers or their employees could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. Under the Chrysler Agreement, we originate private-label loans and leases to facilitate the purchase of Chrysler vehicles by consumers and Chrysler-franchised automotive dealers. In the future, it is possible that Chrysler or other automotive manufacturers with whom we have relationships could utilize other companies to support their financing needs, including offering products or terms that we would not or could not offer, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, Chrysler or other automotive manufacturers could expand or establish or acquire captive finance companies to support their financing needs thus reducing their need for our services. 25 Table of Contents There is no assurance that the global automotive market, or Chrysler’s or our other OEM partners’ share of that market, will not suffer downturns in the future, and any negative impact could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Our information technology may not support our future volumes and business strategies. We rely on our proprietary origination and servicing platforms that utilize database-driven software applications, including nearly 20 years of internal historical credit data and extensive third-party data, to continuously adapt our origination and servicing operations to evolving consumer behavior and to new vehicle finance and consumer loan products. We employ an extensive team of engineers, information technology analysts, and website designers to ensure that our information technology systems remain on the cutting edge. However, due to the continued rapid changes in technology, there can be no assurance that our information technology solutions will continue to be adequate for the business or to provide a competitive advantage. Our network and information systems are important to our operating activities and any network and information system shutdowns could disrupt our ability to process loan applications, originate loans, or service our existing loan portfolios, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating activities. Shutdowns may be caused by unforeseen catastrophic events, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, large-scale power outages, software or hardware defects, computer viruses, cyber attacks, external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, difficulties in migrating technology facilities from one location to another, or other similar events. Although we maintain, and regularly assess the adequacy of, a disaster recovery plan designed to effectively manage the effects of such unforeseen events, we cannot be certain that such plan will function as intended, or otherwise resolve or compensate for such effects. Such a failure of our disaster recovery plan, if and when experienced, may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and ability to support and service our customer base. We are required to make significant estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our financial statements and our estimates and assumptions may not be accurate. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. Critical estimates are made by management in determining, among other things, the allowance for loan losses, amounts of impairment, and valuation of income taxes. If our underlying estimates and assumptions prove to be incorrect, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our allowance for loan losses and impairments may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our originated loan portfolio. For receivables portfolios purchased from other lenders at a discount to the aggregate principal balance of the receivables, the portion of the discount that was attributable to credit deterioration since origination of the loans is recorded as a nonaccretable difference. Any deterioration in the performance of the purchased portfolios after acquisition results in an incremental allowance. Our allowance for loan losses has increased from $384 million, or 5.1% of outstanding principal balance, at December 31, 2009, to $2.5 billion, or 10.4% of outstanding principal balance, at December 31, 2013. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, and nonaccretable difference inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to change. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding our loans, and other factors, both within 26 Table of Contents and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio generally would lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Some of our planned growth is in lending areas other than vehicle loans, and we are not experienced in estimating loan and credit losses in those other areas. In addition, if net charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need to make additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. There is no accurate method for predicting loan and credit losses, and we cannot assure you that our loan loss allowance will be sufficient to cover actual losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. Our profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if the value of used cars declines, resulting in lower residual values of our vehicle leases and lower recoveries in sales of repossessed vehicles. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other used vehicles to be sold, new vehicle market prices and marketing programs, vehicle brand image and strength, perceived vehicle quality, general consumer preference and confidence levels, overall price and volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, among other factors, heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the residual value of our leased vehicles and the amount we recover in remarketing repossessed vehicles. We expect our financial results to be more sensitive to used auto prices as leases become a larger part of our business. Our expectation of the residual value of a leased vehicle is a critical input in determining the amount of the lease payments at the inception of a lease contract. Our lease customers are responsible only for any deviation from expected residual value that is caused by excess mileage or excess wear and tear, while we retain the obligation to absorb any general market changes in the value of the vehicle. Therefore, our operating lease expense is increased when we have to take an impairment on our residual values or when the realized residual value of a vehicle at lease termination is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception. In addition, the timeliness, effectiveness, and quality of our remarketing of off-lease vehicles affects the net proceeds realized from the vehicle sales. While we have elected not to purchase residual value insurance, our exposure is somewhat lessened by Chrysler’s residual subvention programs and the sharing of losses over a specified threshold. However, we take the first portion of loss on any vehicle, and such losses could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. Lower used vehicle prices also reduce the amount we can recover when remarketing repossessed vehicles that serve as collateral underlying loans. As a result, declines in used vehicle prices could have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. Poor portfolio performance may trigger credit enhancement provisions in our revolving credit facilities or secured structured financings. Our revolving credit facilities generally have net spread, delinquency, and net loss ratio limits on the receivables pledged to each facility that, if exceeded, would increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that facility and redirect all excess cash to the credit providers. Generally, these limits are calculated based on the portfolio collateralizing the respective credit line; however, for certain of our warehouse lines, delinquency and net loss ratios are calculated with respect to our serviced portfolio as a whole. Our facility used to finance vehicle lease originations also has a residual loss ratio limit calculated with respect to our serviced lease portfolio as a whole. The documents that govern our secured structured financings also contain cumulative net loss ratio limits on the receivables included in each securitization trust. If, at any measurement date, a cumulative net loss trigger with respect to any financing were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the financing agreements would increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that financing and redirect all excess cash to the holders of the ABS. During this period, excess cash flow, if any, from the facility would be used to fund the 27 Table of Contents increased credit enhancement levels rather than being distributed to us. Once an impacted trust reaches the new requirement, we would return to receiving a residual distribution from the trust. Future significant loan, lease, or unsecured consumer loan repurchase requirements could harm our profitability and financial condition. We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty, or servicing covenant with respect to the loans sold, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser or otherwise compensate one or more classes of investors for losses caused by the breach. If significant repurchases of assets or other payments are required under our responsibility as servicer, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We apply financial leverage to our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We currently apply financial leverage, pledging most of our assets to credit facilities and securitization trusts, and we intend to continue to apply financial leverage in our retail lending operations. Our debt-to-assets ratio is 90% as of December 31, 2013. Unlike banks, we are not subject to regulatory restrictions on the amount of our leverage. Our total borrowings are only restricted by covenants in our credit facilities and market conditions, and our board of directors may change our target borrowing levels at any time without the approval of our stockholders. Incurring substantial debt subjects us to the risk that our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to service our outstanding debt. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and impose restrictions on our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had approximately $23.3 billion and $16.2 billion, respectively, in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including approximately $22.2 billion and $15.9 billion, respectively, in secured indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted approximately 11% of our total interest income for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our debt reduces operational flexibility and creates default risks. Our revolving credit facilities contain a borrowing base or advance rate formula which requires us to pledge finance contracts in excess of the amounts which we can borrow under the facilities. We are also required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, certain facilities require the replacement of delinquent or defaulted collateral, and the finance contracts pledged as collateral in securitizations must be less than 31 days delinquent at the time the securitization is issued. Accordingly, increases in delinquencies or defaults resulting from weakened economic conditions would require us to pledge additional finance contracts to support the same borrowing levels and may cause us to be unable to securitize loans to the extent we desire. These outcomes would adversely impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Additionally, the credit facilities generally contain various covenants requiring in certain cases minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferral levels. Generally, these limits are calculated based on the portfolio collateralizing the respective line; however, for certain of our third-party credit facilities, delinquency and net loss ratios are calculated with respect to our serviced portfolio as a whole. Covenants on our debts also limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • purchase large loan portfolios in bulk; 28 Table of Contents • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments; • sell assets, including our loan portfolio or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens; and • consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, one of our private ABS facilities contains a minimum tangible net worth requirement, and certain of our revolving credit facilities contain key man provisions. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these agreements and/or remove us as servicer. We currently have the ability to pledge retained residuals and create additional unsecured indebtedness on our credit facilities provided by Santander. Santander may elect not to renew these facilities, causing us to have to find other funding sources prior to the maturity of the facilities. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, certain of our funding arrangements may require us to make payments to third parties if losses exceed certain thresholds, including, for example, our flow agreements with Bank of America and SBNA and arrangements with certain third-party loan originators of loans that we purchase on a periodic basis. Competition with other lenders could adversely affect us. The vehicle finance market is served by a variety of entities, including the captive finance affiliates of major automotive manufacturers, banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and independent finance companies. The market is highly fragmented, with no individual lender capturing more than 10% of the market. Our competitors often provide financing on terms more favorable to automobile purchasers or dealers than we offer. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with automobile dealerships and may offer dealerships or their customers other forms of financing that we do not offer. We anticipate that we will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations and as the economy continues to emerge from recession. In addition, certain of our competitors are not subject to the same regulatory regimes that we are. As a result, these competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services, and may be more aggressive in their loan origination activities. Increasing competition could also require us to lower the rates we charge on loans in order to maintain loan origination volume, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, including our profitability. Changes in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability and risk profile. Our profitability may be directly affected by interest rate levels and fluctuations in interest rates. As interest rates change, our gross interest rate spread on new originations either increases or decreases because the rates charged on the contracts originated or purchased from dealers are limited by market and competitive conditions, 29 Table of Contents restricting our ability to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer. Additionally, although the majority of our borrowers are nonprime and are not highly sensitive to interest rate movement, increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of loans we originate. While we monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increased interest rates, we cannot provide assurance that hedging strategies will fully mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates. We are subject to market, operational, and other related risks associated with our derivative transactions that could have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into derivative transactions for economic hedging purposes. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with these transactions, including basis risk, the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost, credit or default risk, the risk of insolvency, or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder, including providing sufficient collateral. Additionally, certain of our derivative agreements require us to post collateral when the fair value of the derivative is negative. Our ability to adequately monitor, analyze, and report derivative transactions continues to depend, to a great extent, on our information technology systems. This factor further increases the risks associated with these transactions and could have a material adverse effect on us. Adverse outcomes to current and future litigation against us may negatively impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of loans originated by automotive dealers, we also may be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against automotive dealers. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates and any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could negatively impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. A security breach or a cyber attack could adversely affect our business. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential consumer information and may, subject to applicable law, share that information with our third-party service providers. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. A security breach or cyber attack of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or contract information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to consumers’ personal information or contract information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include investigations, fines, or penalties imposed by state or federal regulatory agencies, including the loss of necessary permits or licenses. This liability could also include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims, claims for other misuses, or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes or claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in 30 Table of Contents computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive consumer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or cyber attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches and cyber attacks, but our failure to prevent such security breaches and cyber attacks, whether due to an external cyber-security incident, a programming error, or other cause, could damage our reputation, expose us to mitigation costs and the risks of private litigation and government enforcement, disrupt our business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We partially rely on third parties to deliver services, and failure by those parties to provide these services or meet contractual requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of our business operations. For example, we depend on third parties like Experian to obtain data related to our market that we use in our origination and servicing platforms. In addition, we rely on third-party servicing centers for a portion of our servicing activities and on third-party repossession agents. If a service provider fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers’ transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to service our customers, or subjecting us to litigation or regulatory risk for poor vendor oversight. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services, and the quality of our brands, and could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Catastrophic events may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks, and the escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or otherwise may have negative and significant effects, such as imposition of increased security measures, changes in applicable laws, market disruptions, and job losses. These events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. Moreover, the potential for future terrorist attacks and the national and international responses to these threats could affect our business in ways that cannot be predicted. The effect of any of these events or threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The obligations associated with being a public company will require significant resources and management attention, which will increase our costs of operations and may divert focus from our business operations. Until our IPO, we were not required to comply with Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) requirements to file periodic reports with the SEC. As a public company, we are now required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. As a public company, we will also incur significant legal, accounting, insurance, and other expenses. Compliance with these reporting requirements and other rules of the SEC and the rules of the NYSE will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from successfully implementing our strategic initiatives and improving our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Among other things, we are required to: prepare and distribute periodic reports and other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and applicable stock exchange rules; appoint new independent members to our board of directors and committees; create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; institute more comprehensive compliance and internal audit functions; evaluate and maintain our system of internal 31 Table of Contents control over financial reporting, and report on management’s assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; involve and retain outside legal counsel and accountants in connection with the activities listed above; enhance our investor relations function; and maintain internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. We anticipate that these costs will materially increase our total costs and expenses. Internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that we timely report information as specified in the rules and regulations of the SEC. We also maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. However, these controls may not achieve their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and compliance, such as our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, are subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Controls can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. If our controls are not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and market for our common stock, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Regulatory Risks We operate in a highly regulated industry and continually changing federal, state, and local laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business. Due to the highly regulated nature of the consumer finance industry, we are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state, and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which we conduct our origination and servicing operations. These regulations directly impact our business and require constant compliance, monitoring, and internal and external audits. Although we have an extensive enterprise-wide compliance framework structured to continuously monitor our activities, compliance with applicable law is costly, and may create operational constraints. These laws and their implementing regulations include, among others, usury laws, Anti-Money Laundering requirements (Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act), ECOA, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Privacy Regulations (Gramm-Leach Bliley Act and Right to Financial Privacy Act), Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Truth in Lending Act, and requirements related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous to, or in addition to, those listed above. These federal, state, and local laws regulate the manner in which financial institutions deal with customers when making loans or conducting other types of financial transactions. New legislation and regulation may include changes with respect to consumer financial protection measures and systematic risk oversight authority. Such changes present the risk of financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restrictions or suspensions of business, or costs associated with mandatory corrective action as a result of failure to adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could also give rise to regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by state and local attorneys general, civil or criminal liability, or damage to our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents In connection with the SEC’s review of the Annual Reports on Form 10-K filed by Santander Drive Auto Receivables Trust 2010-1 and Santander Drive Auto Receivables Trust 2010-2 (together, the “2010 Trusts”) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the 2010 Trusts received a comment from the SEC regarding the applicability to SCUSA, as the servicer of the 2010 Trusts, of certain servicing criteria set forth in Regulation AB relating to the safeguarding of pool assets and related documentation of the 2010 Trusts. We completed our final response to this comment letter, including amendments to the Form 10-K filings by the 2010 Trusts, in September 2013 and believe there has been no adverse impact on our business. The Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB in addition to recently issued rules and guidance will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs. The Dodd-Frank Act introduced a substantial number of reforms that continue to reshape the structure of the regulation of the financial services industry. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things, the creation of the CFPB, which is authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products and services. In March 2013, the CFPB issued a bulletin recommending that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes us, take steps to monitor and impose controls over dealer markup policies where dealers charge consumers higher interest rates, with the markup shared between the dealer and the lender. The CFPB is also conducting supervisory audits of large vehicle lenders and has indicated it intends to study and take action with respect to possible ECOA “disparate impact” credit discrimination in indirect vehicle finance. If the CFPB enters into a consent decree with one or more lenders on disparate impact claims, it could negatively impact the business of the affected lenders, and potentially the business of dealers and other lenders in the vehicle finance market. This impact on dealers and lenders could increase our regulatory compliance requirements and associated costs. Unlike competitors that are banks, we are subject to the licensing and operational requirements of states and other jurisdictions and our business would be adversely affected if we lost our licenses. Because we are not a depository institution, we do not benefit from exemptions to state loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they exist, we must comply with state licensing and various operational compliance requirements in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. These include, among others, form and content of contracts, other documentation, collection practices and disclosures, and record keeping requirements. We are sensitive to regulatory changes that may increase our costs through stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws, or increased fees. Currently, we have all required licenses as applicable to do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, we are subject to periodic examinations by state and other regulators. The states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our business may later choose to do so. The failure to comply with licensing or permit requirements and other local regulatory requirements could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, possible review of licenses, and damage to reputation, brand, and valued customer relationships. We may be subject to certain banking regulations that may limit our business activities. Because our largest shareholder is a bank holding company and because we provide third-party services to banks, we are subject to certain banking regulations, including oversight by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Bank of Spain. Such banking regulations could limit the activities and the types of businesses that we may conduct. The Federal Reserve has broad enforcement authority over bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could exercise its power to restrict SHUSA from having a non-bank subsidiary that is engaged in any activity that, in the Federal Reserve’s opinion, is unauthorized or 33 Table of Contents constitutes an unsafe or unsound business practice, and could exercise its power to restrict us from engaging in any such activity. The Federal Reserve may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations that we may commit. Additionally, the Federal Reserve has the authority to approve or disallow acquisitions we may contemplate, which may limit our future growth plans. To the extent that we are subject to banking regulation, we could be at a competitive disadvantage because some of our competitors are not subject to these limitations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • general market conditions; • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance; • downgrades in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts; • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations. For example, we are currently operating in, and have benefited from, a protracted period of historically low interest rates that will not be sustained indefinitely, and future fluctuations in interest rates could cause an increase in volatility of the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have anti-takeover effects, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. In addition, Delaware law may inhibit takeovers of us and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions our board of directors believes would be in the best interests of stockholders. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • fix the number of directors and provide that the number of directors may only be changed by an amendment to our bylaws; • limit the ability of our stockholders to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors; 34 Table of Contents • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders or to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that may be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by SHUSA, could impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) generally affects the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons owning directly or indirectly 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. We elected in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that each of SHUSA and its successors and affiliates and certain of its direct transferees are not deemed to be “interested stockholders,” and, accordingly are not subject to such restrictions, as long as it and its affiliates own at least 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our common stock is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness and any preferred stock, and effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and preferred equity claims against our subsidiaries. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests in us and, as such, rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities. Additionally, holders of our common stock may become subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of any classes or series of preferred stock that our board of directors may designate and issue without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of our subsidiaries’ liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors and preferred stockholders. SHUSA has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. SHUSA owns approximately 60.5% of our common stock, and accordingly has significant influence over us, including and pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders Agreement. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, SHUSA has the right to nominate a majority of our directors, provided certain minimum share ownership thresholds are maintained. Through our board of directors, SHUSA controls our policies and operations, including, among other things, the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. In addition, the Shareholders Agreement provides the directors nominated by SHUSA with approval rights over certain specific material actions taken by SCUSA, provided certain minimum share ownership thresholds are maintained. These material actions include changes in material accounting policies, changes in material tax policies or positions and changes in our principal line of business. 35 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. SHUSA owns a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group, or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a separate nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a separate compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we will not have a majority of independent directors and we will not have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, we will not have a compensation committee comprised of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 