D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. Before you invest in our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as general economic and business risks and the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important risk factors that could adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business A small number of games currently generate a substantial majority of our gross bookings and if we are unable to generate gross bookings from other games that offset the declines from these games, it will be difficult for us to continue to grow our business. In the fourth quarter of 2014, our top three games Candy Crush Saga, Farm Heroes Saga and Candy Crush Soda Saga accounted for 77% of our total gross bookings (across the web and mobile channels in the aggregate). Candy Crush Saga, accounted for 45% of our total gross bookings in the fourth quarter of 2014 (across the web and mobile channels in the aggregate). In the future, the gross bookings from our other games, including our newer games, may not be sufficient to offset any decline in the gross bookings of Candy Crush Saga. If the gross bookings of our top games, including Candy Crush Saga, are lower than anticipated and we are unable to broaden our portfolio of games or increase gross bookings from those games, we will not be able to maintain or grow our gross bookings and our financial results will be adversely affected. We must develop new games and enhance our existing games so that our players will continue to play our games and make purchases of virtual items within our games. Our continued growth will depend on our ability to regularly develop new games, expand our franchises and enhance our existing games in ways that improve the gaming experience for both paying and non-paying players while encouraging the purchase of virtual items within our games. In the event our traditional game development model ceases to be effective or we adopt new game development models that fail to be as successful or that new games do not generate a sufficient amount of gross bookings, our current development costs would increase and our operating results would suffer. It is possible that only a small number of our games, if any, become successful and generate significant purchases of virtual items. Our ability to successfully and regularly develop new games, expand our franchises and enhance existing games and their ability to achieve commercial success are subject to a number of challenges, including: • our need to continually anticipate and respond to changes in the game industry, particularly in the mobile and social platforms; • our ability to compete successfully against a large and growing number of industry participants; • our ability to develop and launch new game IP and games on time and on budget; • our ability to develop new game formats and game envelopes that drive engagement and monetization; • our ability to adapt to changing player preferences; • our ability to enhance existing games by adding features and functionality that will encourage continued engagement with the game, for example those that increase social interactions; • our ability to execute successful game launches; • our ability to hire and retain skilled personnel as we seek to expand our development capabilities; • our ability to access new demographic markets; • our ability to integrate our acquisitions; • our ability to achieve a positive return on our advertising investments and continue to experience success with organic viral growth; and • the need to minimize and quickly resolve bugs or outages. If we are unable to develop new and enhance existing games that generate meaningful gross bookings, our business and financial results could be harmed. 8 Table of Contents We have experienced significant rapid growth in our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will effectively manage our growth. We have experienced a period of significant rapid growth and expansion in our operations that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. For example, our staff headcount and the scope and complexity of our business have increased significantly, with the number of employees increasing from approximately 660 as of December 31, 2013 to approximately 1,200 as of December 31, 2014, and the number of game studios reaching a total of nine in 2014, with eight game studios in Europe and one game studio in Asia to support our growth and game development. We expect headcount growth to continue for the foreseeable future. The scale and increased complexity of our business, the geographical expansion of our operations and our significantly increased headcount create significant challenges for our management and operational resources. In the event of continued growth of our operations, our information technology systems and our internal controls and procedures will need to be scaled to support our operations. Scaling our systems and procedures can be time consuming, costly and may not have the desired effect. In addition, some members of our management do not have significant experience managing a large global business operation, so our management may not be able to manage such growth effectively. In order to successfully execute our strategy, we must continue to improve our operational and management processes and systems, and identify, hire, integrate, develop and motivate a large number of qualified employees. If we fail to do so, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. As our organization continues to grow, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the benefits of our corporate culture, including our ability to quickly develop and launch new games. This could negatively affect our business performance. We face significant competition, there are low barriers to entry in the digital gaming industry, and competition is intense. The digital gaming industry is highly competitive, and we expect more competitors to emerge and a wider range of games to be introduced. We face competition from a number of competitors who develop casual games and games in other genres for play on social networks, mobile, PC and consoles, some of which include features that compete with our casual games and have community functions where game developers can engage with their players. These competitors include companies such as Activision Blizzard, Inc.; DeNA Co., Ltd.; Electronic Arts Inc.; Gree International, Inc.; GungHo Online Entertainment America, Inc.; Glu Mobile Inc.; Nexon Co. Ltd.; Tencent Holdings Limited; The Walt Disney Company; and Zynga Inc. and numerous privately-held companies such as Supercell Oy. In addition, we face competition from online game developers and distributors who are primarily focused on specific international markets. In certain markets, platforms may provide advantages to our competitors that are not available to us or develop games that compete directly with our games. Many new developers enter the gaming market on a regular basis, some of which see significant success in a short period of time. We could also face increased competition if large companies with significant online presences such as Amazon.com, Inc.; Apple, Inc.; Facebook, Inc.; Google Inc.; or Microsoft Corporation. choose to enter or expand in the games space or develop competing games. Some of these current, emerging and potential competitors have significant resources for developing or acquiring additional games, may be able to incorporate their own strong brands and assets into their games or distribution of their games, have a more diversified set of revenue sources than we do and may be less severely affected by changes in consumer preferences, regulations or other developments that may impact the casual game industry. As there are relatively low barriers to entry to develop a mobile or online casual game, we expect new game competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing games and applications. We also compete or will compete with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch games and other content for these devices and platforms using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. Increased competition could result in a loss of players or negatively impact our ability to acquire new players cost-effectively, both of which could harm our business. Our players may decide to select competing forms of entertainment instead of playing our games. We also face competition for the leisure time, attention and discretionary spending of our players. Other forms of leisure time activities, such as offline, traditional online, personal computer and console games, television, movies, sports, and the Internet, are much larger and more well-established options for consumers. In addition, competition for the attention of players on their mobile devices is intense, as the number of apps on mobile devices is increasing dramatically. If our players do not find our games to be compelling or if other leisure time activities are perceived by our players to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and overall enjoyment, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents If players do not find our game formats compelling and engaging, or if the popularity of the casual game genre declines, we could lose players and our gross bookings could decline. Our most successful games to date have been our games that are in the casual game genre and we expect that we will continue to apply a significant proportion of our focus and resources to developing new games in this genre. In addition, we currently launch our casual games in our Saga format, which involves the progression of the game through numerous levels and through a background story. It is possible that players could lose interest in this format over time due to a variety of reasons, including the emergence of new genres or formats that players find more engaging, increased popularity of other game titles, or lack of sustained interest or loss of interest in particular games. Additionally, consumer tastes and preferences are subject to frequent changes, and it is possible that new gaming genres could replace casual games in popularity. We may not be able to predict future shifts in gaming formats and may not take timely action to adapt our products to new gaming formats or to develop games that consumers continue to enjoy. If large numbers of players were to lose interest in the casual game genre or in our Saga format, if we are unable to anticipate future consumer preferences in gaming formats or develop new game formats or if we are not able to develop games in new casual sub-genres, we could lose players, and our gross bookings, financial performance and business could be adversely and substantially affected. Our recently announced efforts to expand beyond the casual format may not be successful. We have limited experience in developing and launching games outside of our traditional casual genres, and we may do so less effectively or efficiently than we have developed games in the casual genre. We may have to employ significant additional economic and human resource to develop and launch such games, and any games we do offer in these genres may not launch on schedule or may be less popular or profitable than our existing games or than the games of our competitors in such genres, which could adversely affect our gross bookings, profitability and brand. If we are able to develop new games that achieve success, it is possible that these games could divert players of our other games without growing the overall size of our network, which could harm our operating results. Although it is important to our future success that we develop new games that become popular with players, it is possible that these games could cause players to reduce their playing time and purchases of virtual items in our existing games without their engagement with and spend on new games offsetting these reductions. For example, we experienced some limited cannibalization impact on our other games after the launch of Candy Crush Soda Saga. This risk may be more acute as we extend our franchises, as sequels and sister titles may be more likely to compete for playing time and spend of players of the original titles in the same franchise. In addition, we also plan to cross-promote our new games in our other games, which could further encourage players of existing games to divert some of their playing time and spend on existing games. If new games do not grow the size of our network or generate sufficient additional purchases of virtual items to offset any declines in purchases from our other games, our gross bookings and our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our free-to-play business model depends on purchases of virtual currency within our games, payments for which are made to our platform providers and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if we do not continue to successfully implement this model. We derived nearly all of our gross bookings in recent periods from the sale of virtual currency in our games, which players can then use to buy in-game virtual items, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our games are available to players for free, and we generally generate revenue from them only if they use the in-game virtual currency to purchase entertainment time, game boosters, and access to additional content. If we fail to offer popular virtual items, make unpopular changes to existing virtual items, or offer games that do not attract purchases of virtual items, or if our platform providers make it more difficult or expensive for players to purchase, or we otherwise fail to sell, our virtual currency, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. A relatively small percentage of our player network accounts for a large portion of our gross bookings and if we are unable to continue to retain players or if they decrease their spending, our gross bookings could be harmed. A relatively small portion of our player network accounts for a large portion of our gross bookings. If we are unable to continue to offer games that encourage these customers to purchase our virtual currency and subsequently buy our virtual items, if we fail offer monetization features that appeal to these players, if these players do not continue to play our games or to purchase virtual items at the same rate, or if we cannot encourage significant additional players to purchase virtual items in our games, we will not be able to sustain our revenue or gross bookings growth rates, and our business will be harmed. 10 Table of Contents As we have built up a significant player network, we may fail to attract new players or retain existing players, and the number of players we have will fluctuate, any of which will materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For the quarter ended December 31, 2014, we had an average of 533 million average monthly active users (MAUs), an increase of 125 million from 408 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013. As we have built up a significant player network, in order to sustain our gross bookings, we must attract new players and retain existing paying players. To retain players, we must devote significant resources so that the games they play retain their interest, encourage them to purchase virtual items and attract them to our other games. If the number of our players, the number of our paying players, the rates at which we attract players, the rate at which players purchase virtual items from us, or the volume and/or price of their purchases declines, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. In order to acquire new players to our network and reactivate historical players, we utilize a variety of marketing channels, including advertising online through mobile and social networks, and increasingly through television. Acquiring and reactivating players can be costly and the effectiveness of such efforts can vary widely by game, geography and platform and increased competition can have the effect of increasing player acquisition costs. Furthermore, the success of our business depends in large part on our ability to retain our players, generate gross bookings from new players, maintain gross bookings generation from existing players and migrate our existing players to new games and new platforms. In 2014 and 2013, we incurred $455 million and $377 million, respectively, in sales and marketing expenses to promote our games. We also encourage our existing players to play our new games and use new platforms through cross-promotions. Although our costs associated with acquiring new players has decreased in recent periods, as our player network continues to evolve it is possible that the composition of our player network may change in a manner that makes it more difficult to generate sufficient gross bookings to offset the costs associated with acquiring new players and retaining our current players. Additionally, our cross-promotions may be ineffective or could be restricted by platforms thereby reducing retention of our existing players. If the cost to acquire players is greater than the gross bookings we generate over time from those players and if we cannot successfully migrate our current players to new games and new platforms as we have historically, our business and operating results will be harmed. We may not maintain profitability in the future. Although we were profitable in the past, we expect to make significant investments in growing our business, including through investments in organic growth as well as possible strategic acquisitions or other transactions and increase our employee headcount, which could reduce our profitability compared to past periods. In addition, as a public company, we are incurring significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of these increased expenditures, our profitability could decline in future periods. While our revenue has grown substantially from 2012, in future periods, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We therefore may fail to maintain profitability. We also may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this section, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, tax liabilities, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability, and we may incur losses in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, which make our future results difficult to predict. Our gross bookings and other operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict our future gross bookings or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and forecasts, and some of our operating costs are to a large extent fixed in the near term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs quickly enough to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in gross bookings. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • delays in launching our games on mobile or social platforms; • the ability of games released in prior periods to sustain their popularity and monetization rates and the popularity and monetization rates of new games or enhancements to existing games released during the quarter; • our ability to maintain and increase the number of our players who purchase virtual items and the volume of their purchases; • a loss of popularity of the casual sub-genres of our games or our Saga game format; 11 Table of Contents • changes to the terms and conditions offered by our platform partners and our ability to effectively use those platforms for distribution and marketing; • the increase in popularity of existing games and the timing of new games released by our competitors; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for games on mobile devices and social media or mobile platforms; • increases in marketing and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • system failures or breaches of data security; • changes in privacy laws affecting how we may market to our players or use the personal information we collect; • regulatory changes such as in consumer protection; • inaccessibility of the distribution platforms for our games; • changes in accounting rules; • changes to tax laws or the interpretation thereof; and • macro-economic conditions and their effect on discretionary consumer spending. Our share price may be volatile, and the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Market prices for securities of public companies, particularly technology, entertainment and game companies, have historically been particularly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results; • loss of existing players due to declining popularity of existing games or lack of new highly successful games; • competitors developing more compelling games attracting our players; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are lower than projected or expected or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is lower than expected; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • the loss of, or changes to, one of our key distribution platforms; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive games or products; • sales of ordinary shares by our shareholders; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in Europe, the United States or other countries; • actual or threatened litigation involving us or our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general trends in the gaming industry as a whole; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • further issuances of ordinary shares by us; • repurchases of ordinary shares; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. You may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. We will continue to selectively pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our shareholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We will continue to selectively pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies that we believe could complement or expand our game IPs, enhance our technical capabilities, add skilled personnel or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, in 2014 we acquired Nonstop Games, adding our first studio in Asia, and on February 6, 2015 we signed an agreement, subject to certain closing conditions, to acquire Z2Live, Inc., a game development company based in Seattle, Washington. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. If we acquire businesses or technologies, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • negative effects on games and game development from the changes and potential disruption that may follow the acquisition; • inability to integrate the operations, systems, technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise in connection with integration; • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • acquired game IPs or other assets failing to meet expectations; • in some cases, the need to transition operations and players onto our existing or new platforms and the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, players and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses; • in certain instances, the ability to exert control of acquired businesses that include earnout provisions in the agreements relating to such acquisitions or the potential obligation to fund an earnout for a product that has not met expectations; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our ability to engage in future acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract these candidates and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions. Acquisitions could result in potential dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of significant cash balances or incurrence of debt (and increased interest expense), contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill and/or intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our shareholders. Our key operating principle of putting our players first may conflict with the short-term interests of our business. One of our key operating principles is that the player comes first, which we believe is essential to our success in increasing our growth and engagement and in serving the best, long-term interests of the company and our shareholders. Therefore, we may forgo certain expansion or short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe will enhance the experience of our players, even if our decision negatively impacts our operating results in the short term. It is possible that our decisions may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our business and operating results could be harmed. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to anticipate or successfully develop games for new technologies, platforms and devices, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our games could suffer. The casual game genre, and the gaming industry more generally, are characterized by rapid technological changes that can be difficult to anticipate. New technologies, including distribution platforms and gaming devices (such as consoles, connected TVs and wearables, such as smart watches) or a combination of existing and new devices, may force us to adapt our current game development processes or adopt new processes. If consumers shift their time to platforms other than the mobile and social platforms where our games are currently distributed, the size of our audience could decline and our performance could be impacted. It may take significant time and resources to shift our focus to such technologies, platforms and devices, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development to adapt to these new technologies, distribution platforms and devices, either to preserve our games or a game launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. We could also devote significant resources to updating developing games to work with such technologies, platforms or devices, and these new technologies, platforms or devices may not experience sustained, widespread consumer acceptance. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our games, or cause us to incur significantly increased costs, which could harm our operating results. We rely on third-party platforms such as the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store and Facebook to distribute our games and collect payments. If we are unable to maintain a good relationship with such platform providers, if their terms and conditions, methods of distribution, payment practices or pricing changed to our detriment, if we violate, or if a platform provider believes that we have violated, the terms and conditions of its platform, or if any of these platforms were unavailable for a prolonged period of time, our business will suffer. We currently derive a majority of our gross bookings from distribution of our games on the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store and Facebook, and most of the virtual currency we sell is purchased using the payments processing systems of these platform providers. These platforms also serve as significant online distribution platforms for our games. We are subject to their standard terms and conditions for application developers, which govern the promotion, distribution and operation of games and other applications on their platforms. In addition, if we violate, or if a platform provider believes that we have violated, its terms and conditions, the particular platform provider may discontinue or limit our access to that platform, which would harm our business. Our business would be harmed if they discontinue or limit our access to their platforms, if their platforms decline in popularity, if they modify their current discovery mechanisms, communication channels available to developers, respective terms of service or other policies, including fees, if they are required to change how they label free-to-play games or take payment for in-app purchases, or change how the personal information of players is made available to developers or develop their own competitive offerings. We also rely on the continued operation of third-party platforms such as the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store and Facebook. In the past, some of these platform providers have been unavailable for short periods of time or experienced issues with their in-app purchasing functionality. If either of these events recurs on a prolonged, or even short-term, basis or other similar issues arise that impact players’ ability to download our games, access social features, purchase virtual currency or buy virtual items, it would have a material adverse effect on our gross bookings, operating results and brand. Furthermore, any change or deterioration in our relationship with these platform providers could materially harm our business and likely cause our share price to decline. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. We currently depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including Riccardo Zacconi, our Chief Executive Officer, and John Sebastian Knutsson, our Chief Creative Officer, and our other executive officers and senior development personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Zacconi and Knutsson, the agreements have no specific duration and these employees can terminate their employment at any time, subject to the agreed notice periods and post-termination restrictive covenants. In addition, our games are created, developed, enhanced and supported in our in-house game studios. The loss of key game studio personnel, including members of management as well as key engineering, game development, artists, product, marketing and sales personnel, could disrupt our current games, delay new game development, and decrease player retention, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents As we continue to grow, we cannot guarantee we will continue to attract and retain the personnel we need to maintain our competitive position. In particular, we intend to hire a significant number of engineering, development, operations and design personnel, and we expect to face significant competition from other companies in hiring and retaining such personnel as well as the complexities of recruiting well-qualified staff in multiple international jurisdictions. As we mature, the incentives to attract, retain and motivate our staff provided by our equity awards or by future arrangements, such as through cash bonuses, may not be as effective as in the past. If we do not succeed in attracting, hiring and integrating excellent personnel, or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. Being a public company has increased our compliance costs significantly and required the expansion and enhancement of a variety of financial and management control systems and infrastructure and the hiring of significant additional qualified personnel. Prior to our initial public offering (IPO) in 2014, we were not subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or the other rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any securities exchange relating to public companies, or of the laws, rules and regulations of Ireland applicable to Irish corporations. We continue to work with our legal, independent accounting and other advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include financial planning and analysis, tax, corporate governance, accounting policies and procedures, insurance, internal controls, internal audit, board compensation, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. In addition, the Irish law imposes a number of additional regulatory filings and other requirements that require us to incur additional legal, accounting and administrative costs. We have made, and will continue to make, significant changes in these and other areas, and the expenses associated with these initiatives have been, and we expect will be, material in the future. Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies also require considerable time and attention of management and also require us to successfully hire and integrate a significant number of additional qualified personnel into our existing finance, legal, human resources and operations departments. We currently offer our games in multiple jurisdictions and have an increasing number of facilities. We plan to continue expanding into new geographic markets where we have limited experience and we may be subject to increased business, additional regulation and economic risks that could affect our financial results. We plan to continue the expansion of our game offerings in various jurisdictions using different distribution models. However, we have limited experience in marketing, developing and deploying our games in these new markets, including Asian markets, and have limited history offering our games on the local social networks or mobile platforms. As a result, it is difficult to effectively assess their long-term prospects. We cannot make any assurances that our games will achieve comparable levels of success as they have historically in other geographic regions or on other platforms. We currently have studios or offices in 11 countries, and may continue our geographical expansion into markets. Physically operating in new jurisdictions can be expensive and resource intensive. In addition, some of these geographic markets may have substantial legal and regulatory complexities. We are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • risks related to the legal and regulatory environment in non-U.S. and non-E.U. jurisdictions, including with respect to privacy and data security, and unexpected changes in laws, regulatory requirements and enforcement; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws in multiple jurisdictions, including potential license obligations; • potential damage to our brand and reputation due to compliance with local laws, including requirements to provide player information to local authorities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political, social or economic instability; • the potential need to recruit and work through local partners; • cultural differences, which may affect market acceptance of our games; • reduced protection for or increased violation of intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulties in managing global operations and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • compliance with the U.K. Bribery Act, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions; • natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods; • inadequate local infrastructure; and • exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. If we are unable to manage our global operations successfully, our financial results could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent on a small number of data center providers and any failure or significant interruption in our network could impact our operations and harm our business. We host the backend systems that our games use from a primary data center located in Stockholm, Sweden. We also have a back-up system hosted at a separate data center in Stockholm, Sweden. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our data center operators is acquired, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible lengthy service interruptions in connection with doing so. Problems faced by our third-party data center locations, with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our players. Our third-party data center operators could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by our third-party data centers operators or any of the service providers with which we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our games could adversely affect our reputation and adversely affect the game playing experience. If a particular game is unavailable when players attempt to access it or if navigation through a game is slower than they expect, players may stop playing the game and may be less likely to return to the game as often, if at all. Interruptions in our services might reduce our gross bookings, subject us to potential liability, or adversely affect our renewal rates. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. Our insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses. We will need to continue to expand and enhance our network infrastructure to accommodate the growth of our business. We rely on our internal network infrastructure to manage our operations and to provide us with the data we need to analyze the performance of our business and to report our operational and financial performance accurately. We have made substantial investments in expanding and enhancing our network systems and we plan to continue to invest in our network systems, which could involve additional purchases of computer hardware and software as well as the hiring of additional operations personnel. We may not be able to successfully install and implement any new computer hardware and software needed to enhance our operational systems and we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of additional qualified operations personnel. If we are unable to successfully expand and enhance our network infrastructure and operational systems, or experience difficulties in implementing such systems, our business could be harmed. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. Additionally, we rely on our network, data centers and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing and operational support activities. In the event of a catastrophic event, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our application development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Unforeseen “bugs” or errors in our games could harm our brand, which could harm our operating results. Our games have in the past contained and may in the future contain errors or “bugs” that are not detected until after they are broadly released. Any such errors could harm the overall game playing experience for our players, which could cause players to reduce their playing time or in game purchases, discontinue playing our games altogether, or not recommend our games. Such errors could also result in our games being non-compliant with applicable laws or create legal liability for us. Resolving such errors could also disrupt our operations, cause us to divert resources from other projects, or harm our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Security breaches could harm our business. Security breaches have become more prevalent in the technology and gaming industries. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect, use, store and disclose, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent (e.g., software bugs or other technical malfunctions, employee error or malfeasance, or other factors) or unauthorized data access or use will not occur despite our efforts. Although we have not experienced any material security breaches to date, we have in the past experienced and we may in the future experience attempts to disable our systems or to breach the security of our systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to personal information, confidential information and/or the systems on which such information are stored and/or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers and/or suffer other negative consequences to our business. A security breach could adversely affect the game playing experience and cause the loss or corruption of data, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any failure to maintain the security of our infrastructure could result in loss of personal information and/or other confidential information, damage to our reputation and customer relationships, early termination of our contracts and other business losses, paying damages to our customers, financial penalties, litigation, regulatory investigations and other significant liabilities. In the event of a major third-party security incident, we may incur losses in excess of their insurance coverage. Further, certain incidents that we can experience may not be covered by the insurance that we carry. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to us or another digital entertainment company, our customers and potential customers may lose trust in the security of our business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. The laws and regulations concerning data privacy and data security are continually evolving; our, or our platform providers’, actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. Players can play our games online using third-party platforms and networks and on mobile devices. We collect and store significant amounts of information about our players—both personally identifying and non-personally identifying information. We are subject to laws from a variety of jurisdictions regarding privacy and the protection of this player information. For example, the European Union (EU) has traditionally taken a broader view than the United States and certain other jurisdictions as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under data privacy regulations. The U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) also regulates the collection, use and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. While none of our games are directed at children under 13 years of age, if COPPA were to apply to us, failure to comply with COPPA may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations and could result in substantial fines. Data privacy protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could impact our approach to operating and marketing our games. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, is continuing to review the need for greater regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the Internet and on mobile devices and the EU has proposed reforms to its existing data protection legal framework. Various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. In addition, in some cases, we are dependent upon our platform providers to solicit, collect and provide us with information regarding our players that is necessary for compliance with these various types of regulations. Player interaction with our games is subject to our privacy policy and terms of service. If we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy or terms of service or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, impact our financial condition and harm our business. If regulators, the media or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, and negatively impact our financial condition and damage our business. In the area of information security and data protection, many jurisdictions have passed laws requiring notification when there is a security breach for personal data or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to implement. We cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A security breach that compromises personal information could harm our reputation and result in a loss of player confidence in our products and ultimately in a loss of players, which could adversely affect our business and impact our financial condition. This could also subject us to liability under applicable security breach-related laws and regulations and could result in additional compliance costs, costs related to regulatory inquiries and investigations, and an inability to conduct our business. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, and if we fail to adhere to their rules and regulations, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks, which could subject us to damages and liability and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting credit card payments. The payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who process and accept credit cards for payment of goods and services. Parts of our business require us to comply with these rules and regulations as part of the contracts we enter into with payment processors and merchant banks. The rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS). Under the PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of payment card data to help prevent fraud. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, including the PCI DSS, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks. Such failure to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages, higher transaction fees, civil liability and loss of certification and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting debit and credit cards or could lead to a loss of payment processor partners. Further, there is no guarantee that even if we currently comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, we will be able to maintain our compliance. We also cannot guarantee that such compliance will prevent the theft, loss or misuse of the debit or credit card data of customers or participants or regulatory or criminal investigations. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and any increases in our credit card and debit card fees could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any such illegal or improper payments could harm our reputation and may result in a loss of service for our customers, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Cheating programs or guides could affect the player experience and may lead players to stop purchasing virtual items. Unrelated third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, “cheating” programs or guides that enable players to advance in our games, which could reduce the demand for virtual items. In addition, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they run could be discovered after their release, which may result in lost revenue opportunities. This may lead to lost gross bookings from paying players or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could harm our business. If we fail to maintain our brand or further develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our games and attracting new players. Brand promotion activities may not generate consumer awareness or increase gross bookings, and even if they do, any increase in gross bookings may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. In addition, our brand can be harmed if we experience adverse publicity for our games for any reason, including due to “bugs,” outages, security breaches, violations of laws or the release of new games that fail to meet expectations. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our applications. If we are unable to maintain and nurture our company culture, our business may be harmed. We believe that building and maintaining a unique culture benefits our players and staff. Following our transition to being a public company and with continued staff headcount growth and expansion of our operations, it is more challenging to maintain our company culture. If we fail to maintain our culture, we may not be able to recruit and retain talented staff that develop and support highly engaging games for our players and our business may be harmed. Our business is subject to a variety of laws worldwide, many of which are untested and still developing and which could subject us to further regulation, claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the United States, Europe, Asia and other jurisdictions, including laws regarding consumer protection (including with respect to the use of email, telephonic, text messaging and other forms of electronic marketing), intellectual property, virtual items and currency, export and national security, all of which are continuously evolving and developing. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly laws outside the United States. It is also likely that as our business grows and evolves and our games are played in a greater number of countries, we will become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to modify our games, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the United States, Europe and elsewhere that could restrict the online and mobile industries, including consumer protection, protection of minors, player privacy, advertising, taxation, gaming, payments, copyright, distribution and antitrust, among others. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual items and currency may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on or limitations on operations of companies such as ours conducting business through the Internet and mobile devices. For example, the EU has met with certain industry representatives and consumer-protection groups to consider the efficacy of existing consumer law to address perceived problems regarding the purchase of virtual items in applications, including game applications. We anticipate that scrutiny and regulation of our industry will further increase, and we will be required to devote legal and other resources to addressing such regulation such as in the labeling of free-to-play games and the marketing of in-app purchases. For example, existing laws or new laws regarding the marketing of in-app purchases, regulation of currency, banking institutions, unclaimed property and money laundering may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods, or laws regarding the regulation of gambling may be interpreted to encompass our games. We have structured and operate our skill tournaments with gambling laws in mind and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling. However, our skill tournaments could in the future become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. We also sometimes offer our players various types of contests and promotion opportunities. We are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. If these were to occur we might be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States, Europe or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of casual game services and impair our business. Changes in the tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet and the global reach of our network, it is possible that various states or countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income, consumption, use or other taxes relating to our activities, or impose obligations on us to collect such taxes. Tax authorities in many jurisdictions are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce such as the sale of virtual items and the provision of online services. The imposition of new or revised tax laws or regulations may subject us or our players to additional sales, income, consumption, use or other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose such taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales, use or consumption taxes, the Value Added Tax and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of selling, and for our players, buying, virtual items over the Internet. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The application of tax laws is subject to interpretation and if tax authorities challenge our methodologies or our analysis of our tax rates it could result in an increase to our worldwide effective tax rate and cause us to change the way we operate our business. The application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and also depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the expected tax consequences, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. A certain degree of judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions. It is not uncommon for taxing authorities in different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm’s length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. In addition, tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. For example, the work being carried out by the OECD on base erosion and profit shifting as a response to increasing globalization of trade could result in changes in tax treaties or the introduction of new legislation that could impose an additional tax on businesses. As a result of changes to laws or interpretations, our tax positions could be challenged and our income tax expenses could increase in the future. 19 Table of Contents For instance, if tax authorities in any of the countries in which we operate were to successfully challenge our transfer prices, they could require us to reallocate our income to reflect transfer pricing adjustments, which could result in an increased tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income was reallocated did not agree with the reallocation asserted by the first country, we could become subject to tax on the same income in both countries, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it could increase our tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or the costs involved in such enforcement could harm our business and operating results. We regard the protection of our trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success and we rely on trademark, copyright, patent and designs law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We pursue the registration of our key domain names, trademarks and service marks in Europe, the United States and in certain additional jurisdictions. We are seeking to protect our trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We are increasing our investment in protecting our innovations through increased patent filings that are expensive and time-consuming but which may not result in issued patents that can be effectively enforced. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to confirm our ownership of intellectual property and to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. Further, our corporate structure includes several different subsidiaries in many countries, which increases our burden with respect to policing our employees’ compliance with their confidentiality obligations. In some instances, we may be required to obtain licenses to intellectual property in lieu of ownership. Such licenses may be limited in scope and require us to renegotiate on a frequent basis for additional use rights. Moreover, to the extent we only have a license to any intellectual property used in any of our games, there may be no guarantee of continued access to such intellectual property, including on commercially reasonable terms. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our technology and games. For example, some companies have released games that are very similar to other successful games in an effort to confuse the market and divert players from their competitor’s games to their copycat games. To the extent that these tactics are employed with respect to any of our games, it could reduce our gross bookings that we generate from these games. Monitoring unauthorized use of our games is difficult and costly, and we incur significant costs in fighting infringement and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent piracy and other unauthorized distribution and use of our technology and games, particularly in certain jurisdictions, such as certain Asian jurisdictions, where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in Europe and the United States. To the extent we expand our activities worldwide, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our games and proprietary information may increase. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, our suit against 6Waves LLC settled in our favor), to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs, adverse publicity or diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be harmed. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology or games. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits asserting infringement of third party rights or attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We could be required to cease certain activities and/or incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights. Some of our competitors may own patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, which they may use to assert claims against us. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents, copyright and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the internet and technology industries are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights. As we continue to be successful, maintain a high profile, face increasing competition and as litigation becomes a more common way to resolve disputes, we face a higher risk of being the target of intellectual property infringement claims. Although we have not been subject to successful claims or lawsuits against us in the past, we cannot assure you that we will not become in the future, subject to claims that we have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights or successful in our defense against such claims. If we are sued by a third party that claims that our technology infringes its rights, the litigation (with or without merit) could be expensive and could divert our management resources. 20 Table of Contents The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party may require us to do one or more of the following: • cease making, selling, offering for sale or using technologies that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages; • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign technology to avoid infringement. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us, such payments or costs could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial results. Our share price has at times experienced substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses. Our share price has at times experienced substantial price volatility. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or the overall market and, in the future, we may be the target of such securities litigation. Such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of resources and management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business, operating resolutions and financial condition and also our reputation. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. We use open source software in our games that may subject our software code to general release or require us to re-engineer such code, which may cause harm to our business. We use open source software in our game development. Some open source software licenses require developers who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our games. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our reputation, result in player losses, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks Related to Investing in a Foreign Private Issuer or an Irish Company As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain requirements under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares than U.S. regulations. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain requirements under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. A foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each requirement under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards with which it does not comply, followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. Our home country practices in Ireland may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. For example, under Irish law, there is no general statutory requirement for equity compensation plans to be approved by way of shareholder resolution, which is different than the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. As such, while we may choose to seek shareholder approval for any equity compensation plans, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association do not require any such approvals and we do not intend to adopt any requirements for such approvals in the future. We may rely on exemptions available under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards to a foreign private issuer and follow our home country practices in the future, and as a result, you may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we will not be subject to U.S. proxy rules and will be subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less detailed than those of a U.S. issuer. We report under the Exchange Act, as a foreign private issuer. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including: the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, we are not required to provide as detailed disclosure as a U.S. registrant, particularly in the area of executive compensation. It is possible that some investors may not be as interested in investing in our ordinary shares as the securities of a U.S. registrant that is required to provide more frequent and detailed disclosure in certain areas, which could adversely affect our share price. 21 Table of Contents We may lose our foreign private issuer status, which would then require us to comply with the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime and cause us to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In order to maintain our current status as a foreign private issuer, either (1) a majority of our ordinary shares must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the United States or (2) (a) a majority of our executive officers or directors must not be U.S. citizens or residents, (b) more than 50 percent of our assets cannot be located in the United States and (c) our business must be administered principally outside the United States. If we lost this status, we would be required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. We may also be required to make changes in our corporate governance practices in accordance with various SEC rules and the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. The regulatory and compliance costs to us if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer under U.S. securities laws may be higher than the cost we would incur as a foreign private issuer. As a result, we expect that a loss of foreign private issuer status would significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs. We also expect that if we were required to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, it would make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors. Judgments of U.S. courts may be difficult to enforce in Ireland. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. Summary judgment against us or our directors or officers, as the case may be, may be granted by the Irish court without requiring the issues in the U.S. litigation to be reopened on the basis that those matters have already been decided by the U.S. court provided that the Irish court is satisfied that: • the judgment is final and conclusive; • the U.S. court had jurisdiction to determine the claim(s) (which is a matter of Irish law); • the U.S. judgment is not impeachable for fraud and is not contrary to Irish rules of natural or substantial justice; • the enforcement of the judgment will not be contrary to public policy or statute in Ireland; • the judgment is for a definite sum of money; • the Irish proceedings were commenced within the relevant limitation period; • the judgment is not directly or indirectly for the payment of taxes or other charges of a like nature or a fine or other penalty (for example, punitive or exemplary damages); • the judgment remains valid and enforceable in the court in which it was obtained unless and until it is set aside; and • before the date on which the U.S. court gave judgment, the issues in question had not been the subject of a final judgment of an Irish court or of a court of another jurisdiction whose judgment is enforceable in Ireland. Irish Law may afford less protection to holders of our securities. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2013 (Irish Companies Acts), which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or other officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. The rights of shareholders to bring proceedings against us or against our directors or officers in relation to public statements are more limited under Irish law than the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. You should also be aware that Irish law does not allow for any form of legal proceedings directly equivalent to the class action available in U.S. courts. Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of shares of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. 22 Table of Contents Our board of directors may be limited by the Irish Takeover Rules in its ability to defend an unsolicited takeover attempt. Following the listing of our ordinary shares on the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Irish Takeover Rules 2013 (Irish Takeover Rules), under which we will not be permitted to take certain actions that might “frustrate” an offer for our ordinary shares once our board of directors has received an offer, or has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent, without the approval of more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of our shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit the ability of our board of directors to take defensive actions even if it believes that such defensive actions would be in our best interests or the best interests of our shareholders. The operation of the Irish Takeover Rules may affect the ability of certain parties to acquire our ordinary shares. Under the Irish Takeover Rules if an acquisition of ordinary shares were to increase the aggregate holding of the acquirer and its concert parties to ordinary shares that represent 30% or more of the voting rights of the company, the acquirer and, in certain circumstances, its concert parties would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make an offer for the outstanding ordinary shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the ordinary shares by the acquirer or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by an acquisition of ordinary shares by a single person holding ordinary shares that represent between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in the company, or by a person which together with its concert parties holds ordinary shares that represent more than 30% of the voting rights in the company, if the effect of such acquisition were to increase that single person’s or that person’s and its concert parties’ percentage of the voting rights by 0.05% or more within any 12 month period. Equally, if, as a result of a repurchase or redemption by the company of its ordinary shares, the aggregate percentage holding of ordinary shares of a person and its concert parties were to increase to 30% or more, that person and its concert parties (or such one or more of such persons as the Irish Takeover Panel may direct) would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make an offer for the outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the ordinary shares by such persons during the previous 12 months. Similarly, if, as a result of a repurchase or redemption by the company of its ordinary shares, the aggregate percentage holding of ordinary shares of a single person holding between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in the company, or of a person together with its concert parties holding ordinary shares representing more than 30% of the voting rights in the company, were to increase by 0.05% or more, that single person or that person and its concert parties (or such one or more of such persons as the Irish Takeover Panel may direct) would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make an offer for the outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the ordinary shares by such persons during the previous 12 months. Under the Irish Takeover Rules, certain separate concert parties (including, among others, our shareholder Bellaria Holding S.á.r.l. (Bellaria) and its affiliates and all of the members of our board of directors) are presumed under the Irish Takeover Rules to be acting in concert. The application of these presumptions may result in restrictions upon the ability of any of the concert parties and/or members of our board of directors to acquire more of our securities, including under the terms of any executive incentive arrangements and/or our ability to repurchase or redeem ordinary shares. Following an application made on behalf of the company, the Irish Takeover Panel has granted a rebuttal in respect of a presumption under the Irish Takeover Rules that Bellaria (by reason of the size of its shareholding in the company) is acting in concert with certain members of our board of directors. However, this rebuttal shall not apply during the course of an offer for the company, or while our board of directors has reason to believe that an offer for the company may be made in the near future, or while the company is in the process of redeeming or repurchasing its own voting securities or while our board of directors proposes that the company redeems or repurchases its own voting securities. The Irish Takeover Panel has granted, and on January 29, 2015 our shareholders approved, waivers of these mandatory offer requirements for Bellaria individually and as a concert party with our board of directors with regard to the share redemption program that was previously announced in November 2014. These waivers will expire at our next general meeting. We cannot guarantee that the Irish Takeover Panel, and where required our shareholders, will grant or approve a similar waiver in the future if one were necessary. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are incorporated under Irish law and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of our shares are governed by Irish law, including the provisions of the Irish Companies Acts, and by our memorandum and articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. The principal differences include the following: 23 Table of Contents • under Irish law, dividends may only be declared by us if we have, on an individual entity basis, profits available for distribution, within the meaning of the Irish Companies Acts; • under Irish law, each shareholder present at a meeting has only one vote unless a poll is called, in which case each shareholder gets one vote per share owned; • under Irish law, unless disapplied in accordance with Irish law in the articles of association of a company or a special resolution of the shareholders (as we have done), each shareholder generally has preemptive rights to subscribe on a proportionate basis to any issuance of shares, whereas under typical U.S. state law, shareholders generally do not have preemptive rights unless specifically granted in the certificate of incorporation or otherwise; • under Irish law, certain matters require the approval of 75% of the votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders, including amendments to our articles of association, which may make it more difficult for us to complete corporate transactions deemed advisable by our board of directors. Under U.S. state law, generally only majority shareholder approval is required to amend the certificate of incorporation or to approve other significant transactions; • under Irish law, a bidder seeking to acquire us would need, on a tender offer, to receive shareholder acceptance in respect of 80% of our outstanding shares. If this 80% threshold is not achieved in the offer, under Irish law, the bidder cannot complete a “second step merger” to obtain 100% control of us. Accordingly, a tender of 80% of our outstanding ordinary shares will likely be a condition to a tender offer to acquire us, not more than 50% as is becoming more common in tender offers for corporations organized under U.S. state law; and • under Irish law, shareholders may be required to disclose information regarding their equity interests upon our request, and the failure to provide the required information could result in the loss or restriction of rights attaching to the shares, including prohibitions on the transfer of the shares, as well as restrictions on voting, dividends and other payments. A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (DTC) will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. The majority of our shares are traded through DTC by brokers who hold such shares on behalf of customers. The exemption for transfers of book-entry interests in DTC is available because our shares will be traded on a recognized stock exchange in the United States. However, if you hold ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC (or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired, which must be paid prior to the registration of the transfer on our official Irish share register). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty to arise could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. U.S. holders of our shares could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe that we are a passive foreign investment company, and we do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company. However, our status in any taxable year will depend on our assets, income and activities in each year, and because this is a factual determination made annually after the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year or any future taxable years. If we were a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year while a taxable U.S. holder held our shares, such U.S. holder would generally be taxed at ordinary income rates on any sale of our shares and on any dividends treated as “excess distributions.” An interest charge also generally would apply based on any taxation deferred during such U.S. holder’s holding period in the shares. Risks Related to Ownership of Ordinary Shares In the future, our ability to raise additional capital to expand our operations and invest in our business may be limited, and our failure to raise additional capital, if required, could impair our business. While we currently anticipate that our available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond, we may need, or elect to seek, additional financing at any time. Our ability to obtain financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. If we need or elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our shareholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our ordinary shares could decline. If we engage in additional debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios and limit the operating flexibility of our business. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: 24 Table of Contents • develop or enhance our games; • continue to expand our development, sales and marketing teams; • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand our global operations; • hire, train and retain employees; • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or • continue our operations. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The price of our ordinary shares could decline if there are substantial sales of our ordinary shares. This is particularly true with regard to sales by our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders, or if there is a large number of our ordinary shares available for sale, in part because we have a small public float relative to the number of our ordinary shares issued and outstanding. Substantially all of our outstanding ordinary shares are available for sale in the public market, although shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and various vesting restrictions. Certain of our shareholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our shareholders. We also have registered the ordinary shares that we have issued and may issue under our employee equity incentive plans and they will be able to be sold freely in the public market upon issuance subject to the shareholder completing the applicable vesting period in the case of some shares issued under our existing share incentive arrangements, and subject to existing market standoff or lock-up agreements. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of the sale of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares adversely, our share price and/or trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our shares, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If any of the analysts who may cover us were to cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Our directors, executive officers and certain holders of more than 5% of our ordinary shares together with their affiliates, will continue to have substantial control over us which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2014, our directors, executive officers and certain holders of more than 5% of our ordinary shares, together with their affiliates, continue to beneficially own a large majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, including approximately 44% held by Bellaria (an entity affiliated with Apax WW Nominees Ltd. (Apax Nominees)). As a result, these shareholders, acting together, may have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any sale, merger or consolidation. In addition, these shareholders, acting together may have the ability to control or influence the management of our affairs. These shareholders may have interests, with respect to their shares, that are different from other investors. The concentration of voting power among these holders may limit the ability of our other shareholders to influence corporate matters and may have an adverse effect on our share price. 25 Table of Contents We may not pay additional dividends on our ordinary shares in the future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. We may not pay any additional cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the future. As a matter of Irish law, we can only pay dividends to the extent that we have distributable reserves and, in the case of cash dividends, cash resources available for this purpose. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. The ability to pay cash dividends in the future will depend on the extent of any profits available for distribution, subject to compliance with applicable laws, including the Irish Companies Acts which require Irish companies to have profits available for distribution before they can pay dividends, and covenants under our current or any future credit facilities, which may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends. It will also depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. More specifically, our current credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. As a result, a return on your investment may only occur if our share price appreciates. Our existing shareholders may be entitled to pre-emptive rights under Irish law, which could limit our ability to raise funds through future issuances of our ordinary shares. Subject to specified exceptions, including the opt-out described in our articles of association, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares in exchange for cash. The opt-out described in our articles of association must be renewed every five years by a resolution approved by not less than 75% of the votes cast by our shareholders at a general meeting. We expect that we will seek renewal of the opt-out at an annual general meeting within five years. However, we cannot guarantee that the pre-emptive rights opt-out will always be approved. If this opt-out is not renewed, it can make any future equity fundraising more cumbersome, costly and time consuming. We currently report our financial results under IFRS, which differs in certain significant respect from U.S. GAAP. Currently, we report our financial statements under IFRS. There have been and there may in the future be certain significant differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP, including differences related to revenue recognition, share-based compensation expense, income tax and earnings per share. As a result, our financial information and reported earnings for historical or future periods could be significantly different if they were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, we do not intend to provide reconciliation between IFRS and U.S. GAAP unless it is required under applicable law. As a result, you may not be able to meaningfully compare our financial statements under IFRS with those companies that prepare financial statements under U.S. GAAP. In certain limited circumstances, dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (DWT), which is currently at a rate of 20%, may arise in respect of dividends, if any, paid on our ordinary shares. A number of exemptions from DWT exist such that certain shareholders resident in the United States and shareholders resident in certain other countries (the “relevant territories”) may be entitled to exemptions from DWT. Shareholders resident in the United States that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to DWT provided the addresses of the beneficial owners are recorded as being within the United States in the particular broker’s records (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). Dividends paid in respect of shares in an Irish resident company that are owned by (1) residents of the United States and held outside of DTC and (2) shareholders resident in “relevant territories” will not be subject to DWT provided that the shareholder has completed the relevant Irish DWT declaration form and this declaration form remains valid. Such shareholders must provide the relevant Irish DWT declaration form to our transfer agent at least seven business days before the record date for the first dividend payment to which they are entitled. However, other shareholders may be subject to DWT, which could adversely affect the price of your shares. 26 Table of Contents Dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. A shareholder who is not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in Ireland and who is entitled to an exemption from DWT generally has no liability for Irish income tax or income charges on a dividend from an Irish resident company unless that shareholder holds the shares through a branch or agency that carries on a trade in Ireland. A shareholder who is not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in Ireland and who is not entitled to an exemption from DWT generally has no additional liability for Irish income tax or income charges unless that shareholder holds the shares through a branch or agency which carries on a trade in Ireland. A shareholder’s liability for Irish income tax is effectively limited to the amount of DWT already deducted by the company. Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax and income charges such as pay related social insurance (PRSI) and the Universal Social Charge (USC) on dividends received from us. Such shareholders should consult their own tax advisor. Irish resident corporate shareholders should not be subject to tax on dividends from us on the basis that the dividend is not in respect of preferred shares. 