Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC, before you decide whether to invest in ACSF. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" in this Report. Risks Relating to Economic ConditionsEconomic recessions or downturns may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loansEconomic recessions or downturns may result in a prolonged period of market illiquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, if a recession were to occur, the financial condition of the portfolio companies in which we invest may deteriorate, which could ultimately lead to difficulty in meeting their debt service obligations to us and an increase in defaults. Additionally, the end markets for certain of our portfolio companies’ products and services would likely experience negative economic trends. The performance of certain of our portfolio companies may be negatively impacted by these economic or other conditions, which may ultimately result in our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies and/or losses or charge offs related to our investments, and, in turn, may adversely affect distributable income. Further, adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our debt and CLO investments. As a result, the payment terms of our investments and/or cash interest rates may be modified. These factors may result in our receipt of a reduced level of interest income from our portfolio companies and/or losses or charge offs related to our investments, and, in turn, may adversely affect distributable income and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.A disruption in capital markets could negatively affect our businessAs a BDC, we may need access to the capital markets to maintain our ability to either refinance existing or raise additional capital for investment and growth purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. Disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may not maintain the asset coverage ratios required by the 1940 Act, which would affect our ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, and pay dividends, and could materially impair our business operations. Our liquidity could be impaired further by an inability to access the capital markets. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than NAV. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness or issue preferred stock will be limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness or issue preferred stock. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as inaccessibility to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, an economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business. Moreover, we are unable to predict when economic and market conditions may become more favorable or worsen. Even if such conditions improve broadly and significantly over the long term, adverse conditions in particular sectors of the financial markets could adversely impact our business.Global economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability Past recessions have had a significant negative impact on the operating performance and fair value of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans which comprise the majority of our investment portfolio. Many of our portfolio companies could be adversely impacted again by any future economic downturn or recession and may be unable to repay our investments, may be unable to be sold at a price that would allow us to recover our investment, or may be unable to operate during such recession. Worldwide financial market crises, as well as various social and political tensions in the United States and around the world, may cause increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the United States and worldwide financial markets, and may cause 17economic uncertainties or deterioration in the United States and worldwide. Since 2010, several European Union (“EU”) countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, have faced budget issues, some of which may have negative long-term effects for the economies of those countries and other EU countries. There is continued concern about national-level support for the Euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member countries. In addition, the fiscal policy of foreign nations, such as China, may have a severe impact on the worldwide and United States financial markets. The Ukraine peace talks may be derailed. Worldwide oil prices may continue to decrease and stay low for a prolonged period of time. We do not know how the financial markets will be affected by these events and cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the United States economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Such investment performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to Our Business and StructureWe have limited operating historyWe were formed in February 2013, acquired our initial portfolio in the period from October through December 2013 and completed our IPO in January 2014. As a result of our lack of operating history, we are subject to many of the business risks and uncertainties associated with recently formed businesses, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially.We are dependent upon American Capital’s key management personnel for our future successWe depend on the diligence and skill of senior management and other members of management of American Capital and certain of its affiliates for raising capital and the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of such senior management and other members of management. We cannot assure you that any such individual will not terminate his or her relationship with us. The departure of certain of our executive officers or key employees of American Capital and certain of its affiliates could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. In addition, we can offer no assurance that American Capital ACSF Management, LLC will remain our Manager. Our Manager’s senior investment team is and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time. Our Manager’s senior investment team dedicates a significant portion of their time to our activities; however, they may be engaged in other business activities that could divert their time and attention in the future.We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunitiesA number of entities will compete with us to make investments in our target portfolio companies. Our primary competitors include other BDCs and CLO investors, other credit focused investment funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, insurance companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, hedge funds. Many of our potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we do, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than we can. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we will face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment goals.We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly resultsWe may experience material fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to many factors including changes in the credit quality of our portfolio, changes in the fair value of our portfolio, changes in the amount of loans on non-accrual status, changes in interest rates and changes in our expenses. Therefore, results for any historical period are not indicative of performance in future periods.We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded companyAs a publicly-traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC and the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Upon ceasing to qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control 18over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will increase costs associated with our periodic reporting requirements.The Investment Committee and/or our Board of Directors may change our operating policies, guidelines and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverseThe Investment Committee and/or our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our operating policies, guidelines and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our operating policies, guidelines and strategies would have on our business, NAV, operating results and the value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose part or all of your investment.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stockEffective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted above), may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control on financial reporting on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years from the date of our IPO. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not detect. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our non-compliance with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategyWe and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, federal and foreign levels, including with respect to securities laws, tax and accounting standards. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or our non-compliance with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to BDCs. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this report and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our Manager and its affiliates to other types of investments in which our Manager and its affiliates may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. On October 22, 2014, six federal agencies approved a final rule requiring sponsors of securitization transactions to retain risk in those transactions. The final rule implemented the risk retention requirements in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The final rule largely retained the risk retention framework contained in the proposal issued by the agencies in August 2013 and generally required sponsors of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) to retain not less than five percent of the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS issuance. The rule also set forth prohibitions on transferring or hedging the credit risk that the sponsor was required to retain. In spite of calls from CLO and leveraged loan market participants for certain exemptions from the risk retention requirements in the final rule for CLOs, the agencies declined to create an exemption for open market CLOs or to create a third-party risk retention alternative for open market CLOs, citing ongoing concerns about the leveraged loan market, including systemic risk resulting from the origination and pooling of leveraged loans with poor underwriting standards. Certain limited exemptions granted by the final rule were generally considered to be inconsistent with the current market practice in the leveraged loan market and were not expected to be widely utilized. The implementation of such risk retention rules by CLOs or any shift in the market practice in the leveraged loan market could have a material impact on our future investments in CLOs. 19It is unclear how increased regulatory oversight and changes in the method for determining LIBOR may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR, or how such changes could affect our results of operations or financial conditionSenior Secured Floating Rate Loans pay interest based on a floating rate calculated as a spread over a market index. The London-Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) is generally used as the market index for Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans. As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR, a number of British Bankers’ Association (“BBA”) member banks entered into settlements with certain regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to the alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and there are ongoing investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions. Following a review of LIBOR conducted at the request of the U.K. government, on September 28, 2012, recommendations for reforming the setting and governing of LIBOR were released, which are referred to as the Wheatley Review. The Wheatley Review made a number of recommendations for changes with respect to LIBOR, including the introduction of S-5 statutory regulation of LIBOR, the transfer of responsibility for LIBOR from the BBA to an independent administrator, changes to the method of the compilation of lending rates and new regulatory oversight and enforcement mechanisms for ratesetting and a reduction in the number of currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is published. Based on the Wheatley Review and on a subsequent public and governmental consultation process, on March 25, 2013, the U.K. Financial Services Authority published final rules for the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s regulation and supervision of LIBOR, which are referred to as the FCA Rules. In particular, the FCA Rules include requirements that (1) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of practice standards and/or potentially manipulative behavior, and (2) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear conflicts of interest policy and appropriate systems and controls. The FCA Rules took effect on April 2, 2013. It is uncertain what additional regulatory changes or what changes, if any, in the method of determining LIBOR may be required or made by the U.K. government or other governmental or regulatory authorities. Accordingly, uncertainty as to the nature of such changes may adversely affect the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations.We are an “emerging growth company,” and we do not know if such status makes our common stock less attractive to investorsWe currently are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, until the earliest of:•the last day of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019;•the year in which our total annual gross revenues first exceed $1 billion;•the date on which we have, during the prior three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; or•the last day of a fiscal year in which we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more, computed at the end of each fiscal year as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) have been an Exchange Act reporting company for at least one year (and filed at least one annual report under the Exchange Act).We intend to take advantage of some of the reduced regulatory and disclosure requirements permitted by the JOBS Act and, as a result, some investors may consider our common stock less attractive, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. For example, while we are an emerging growth company, we intend to take advantage of the exemption from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This may increase the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected.Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibilityOur Board of Directors may determine that it is in our best interests to withdraw our BDC election, subject to the consent of the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities, as required under the 1940 Act. If we do not remain a BDC, we would likely be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. Such regulation would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement in order to qualify and maintain RIC status if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such incomeFor federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as OID. In addition, we may have to continue to recognize interest income for federal income tax purposes on a defaulted loan investment that has not paid the interest contractually owed to us. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. For example, for certain investments, we may accrue income at some point after the 20trade date and before settlement, but we will not receive such income until settlement, which, in certain situations, can be as long as 90 days. Because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may not qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Additionally, we may never collect the cash representing such income.We will become subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify and maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the CodeAlthough we intend to elect to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code for 2014 and succeeding tax years, no assurance can be given that we will be able to qualify for and maintain RIC status. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet numerous annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. We provide no assurances we will meet those requirements. In addition, once we have elected and qualified to be taxed as a RIC, our Board of Directors may determine, without stockholder approval, that it is in our best interests to withdraw our RIC tax status election. Loss of RIC tax status could substantially reduce net assets and income available for debt service and distributionsIf we operate as a RIC, we generally will not be subject to corporate-level income taxation on income we timely distribute, or deem to distribute, to our stockholders as distributions. We would cease to qualify for such tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these requirements. In addition, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to make distributions to our stockholders because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. If we fail to qualify as a RIC, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not we distribute it, which would substantially reduce the amount of income available for debt service as well as reduce and/or affect the character and amount of our distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Our Manager and American CapitalOur management agreement was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if they were negotiated with an unaffiliated third-partyOur management agreement with our Manager was negotiated between related parties, and we did not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third-party. The terms of the management agreement, including fees payable, may not reflect the terms that we may have received if it were negotiated with an unrelated third-party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager.Our results are dependent upon the efforts of our ManagerOur Manager’s success, which will be largely determinative of our own success, depends on many factors, including the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy our targeted investment strategies and then identifying and consummating them on favorable terms, the level and volatility of interest rates and conditions in the financial markets and the economy, in each case, as to which no assurances can be given. In addition, our Manager may face substantial competition for attractive investment opportunities. Our Manager may not be able to successfully cause us to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns.We are completely dependent upon our Manager and certain personnel of American Capital who provide services to us through the management agreement and the administrative services agreement and we may not find suitable replacements for our Manager and these personnel if the management agreement and the administrative services agreement are terminated or such personnel are no longer available to usBecause we have no employees, we are completely dependent on our Manager and its affiliates to conduct our operations pursuant to the management agreement. Our Manager does not have any employees and relies upon certain employees of American Capital and the parent company of our Manager to conduct our day-to-day operations pursuant to an administrative services agreement. Under the administrative services agreement, our Manager is provided with those services and resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our Manager. Neither the administrative services agreement nor the management agreement requires our Manager or American Capital to dedicate specific personnel to our operations. They also do not require any specific personnel of our Manager or American Capital to dedicate a specific amount of time to our business. Additionally, because our Manager is relying upon American Capital, we may be negatively impacted by events or factors that negatively impact American Capital’s business, financial condition or results of operations.21If we terminate the management agreement without cause, we may not, without the consent of our Manager, employ any employee of our Manager or any of its affiliates, including American Capital, or any person who has been employed by our Manager or any of its affiliates at any time within the two-year period immediately preceding the date on which the person commences employment with us for two years after such termination of the management agreement. We believe that the successful implementation of our investment, financing and hedging strategies depends upon the experience of certain of American Capital’s and our Manager’s officers. However, none of these individuals’ continued service is guaranteed. Furthermore, if the management agreement is terminated or these individuals leave American Capital, we may be unable to execute our business plan.There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager and American CapitalBecause we have no employees, our Manager is responsible for making all of our investment decisions. All of our and our Manager’s officers are employees of American Capital or the parent company of our Manager and these persons do not devote their time exclusively to us. Our Manager’s Investment Committee consists of Malon Wilkus, John Erickson, Samuel Flax, Mark Pelletier and Thomas McHale, each of whom is an officer of our Manager and has significant responsibilities to American Capital and certain of its portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds. Mr. Pelletier is the President of our Manager and also serves as our President and Chief Investment Officer, with primary oversight for all of our investments. Mr. Pelletier is also the President of American Capital CLO Management, LLC, the external manager of ACAS CLO 2007-1, Ltd., ACAS CLO 2012-1, Ltd., ACAS CLO 2013-1, Ltd., ACAS CLO 2013-2, Ltd., ACAS CLO 2014-1, Ltd., and ACAS CLO 2014-2, Ltd., which also invest in Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans. As a result, such funds may compete with us for investments. American Capital CLO Management, LLC is an indirect subsidiary of ACAM, a wholly-owned portfolio company of American Capital. Thus, Mr. Pelletier has, and may in the future have, significant responsibilities for American Capital or other funds that are managed by affiliates thereof. In addition, because certain of our and our Manager’s officers are also responsible for providing services to American Capital and/or certain of its portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds, they may not devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. In addition, there are no restrictions on American Capital that would prevent American Capital from sponsoring another investment vehicle that competes with us. Accordingly, American Capital or one or more of its affiliates may also compete with us for investments.Although our Manager and its affiliates have policies in place to seek to mitigate the effects of conflicts of interest, these policies will not eliminate the conflicts of interest that our and our Manager’s officers and the employees of American Capital and certain of its affiliates will face in making investment decisions on behalf of American Capital, any other American Capital-sponsored investment vehicles and us. Further, we do not have any agreement or understanding with American Capital that would give us any priority over American Capital, any of its affiliates, or any such American Capital-sponsored investment vehicle in opportunities to invest in Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans, CLOs or any other investments we may make. Accordingly, we may compete for access to the benefits that we expect from our relationship with our Manager and American Capital.We have no recourse to American Capital if it does not fulfill its obligations under the administrative services agreementNeither we nor our Manager have any employees. Our day-to-day operations are conducted by employees of American Capital or the parent company of our Manager pursuant to an administrative services agreement among our Manager, American Capital and the parent company of our Manager. Under the administrative services agreement, our Manager is also provided with the services and other resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our Manager. Although the administrative services agreement may not be terminated unless the management agreement has been terminated pursuant to its terms, American Capital may assign its rights and obligations thereunder to any of its affiliates, including ACAM, the sole member of the parent company of our Manager. In addition, because we were not a party to the administrative services agreement, we do not have any recourse to American Capital or the parent company of our Manager if they do not fulfill their obligations under the administrative services agreement or if they elect to assign the agreement to one of their affiliates. Also, our Manager only has nominal assets and we have limited recourse against our Manager under the management agreement to remedy any liability to us from a breach of contract or fiduciary duties.Our Manager can resign upon not more than 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operationsOur Manager has the right, under the management agreement, to resign at any time upon not more than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Manager resigns, we may not be able to find a new manager or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Manager and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration 22of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.Our Manager’s management fee is based on the amount of our total consolidated assets and is payable regardless of our performanceOur Manager is entitled to receive a quarterly management fee from us that is based on the amount of our total consolidated assets, excluding our cash and cash equivalents and net unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The amount of the quarterly management fee is equal to one-fourth of 0.80% of our total consolidated assets, excluding our cash and cash equivalents and net unrealized appreciation or depreciation. Accordingly, if we experience a net loss during a quarter as a result of net unrealized depreciation of our investments, the decline in our total consolidated assets from such net unrealized depreciation will not reduce our management fee payable to our Manager. Also, any new investments funded with the cash proceeds received from the issuances of equity or debt will result in an increase in our total consolidated assets and therefore an increase in the management fee payable to our Manager, which could result in a conflict of interest between our Manager and our stockholders with respect to the timing and terms of our equity and debt issuances. While our stockholders will bear the risk of our future equity issuances reducing the price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us and will bear the risk of additional leverage from future debt issuances, the compensation payable to our Manager will increase as a result of future issuances of our equity and debt securities. Our Manager’s entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote sufficient time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio. This in turn could harm both our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.Our Manager’s liability is limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilitiesThe management agreement provides that our Manager and its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, members, managers, partners and stockholders shall not be liable to us or our subsidiaries or our and our subsidiaries’ respective directors, officers, employees, members, managers, partners or stockholders for any action taken or omitted to be taken by our Manager in connection with the performance of any of its duties or obligations under the management agreement or otherwise as a manager or investment adviser, except to the extent specified in Section 36(b) of the 1940 Act concerning loss resulting from a breach of fiduciary duty (as the same is finally determined by judicial proceedings) with respect to the receipt of compensation for services. The management agreement also provides that our Manager and its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, members, managers, partners and stockholders are entitled to indemnification from us from and against any claims or liabilities (including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the management agreement) to the fullest extent such indemnification is then permitted under our charter, the 1940 Act, the Advisers Act, the laws of the State of Maryland and any other applicable law.We may not replicate the historical results achieved by other entities managed by members of the Investment Committee, or by American Capital or its affiliatesOur investments may differ from those of other entities managed by American Capital, its affiliates or members of the Investment Committee. Investors in our securities are not acquiring an interest in any such entities. We may consider co-investing in portfolio investments with other investment vehicles sponsored or managed by members of the Investment Committee, American Capital or its affiliates as permitted under applicable regulations and our policies and procedures. We can offer no assurance, however, that we will develop such permitted opportunities. We also cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by members of the Investment Committee or other entities managed by American Capital or its affiliates, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. Additionally, all or a portion of the prior results may have been achieved in particular market conditions that may never be repeated. Moreover, current or future market volatility and regulatory uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our future performance.Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restrictedWe are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of the members of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. An affiliate under the 1940 Act includes, among others, any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities. We generally are prohibited from buying or selling any securities (other than our securities) or other investments from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. These restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) or other investments from or to any portfolio company of a fund managed by an affiliate of American Capital without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We can offer no assurance that we will seek or be able to obtain such SEC approval. 23ACAM owns approximately 3% of our common stock, which could result in its influence over the outcome of matters submitted to the vote of our stockholdersAs of December 31, 2014, ACAM owned approximately 3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, ACAM and American Capital may have influence over the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of our directors or transactions involving a change in control. Their interests may conflict with, or differ from, the interests of our other stockholders, including you. So long as ACAM continues to own shares of our common stock, it and American Capital could influence our corporate decisions submitted to our stockholders for approval, regardless of whether we terminate the management agreement with our Manager.Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our incomeWe may need additional capital to fund growth in the future. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, any such cash earnings may not be available to fund our investments. We may borrow from financial institutions and issue additional debt and equity securities. If we do not obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, as a BDC, our ability to borrow or issue preferred stock may be restricted if our total assets are less than 200% of our total borrowings and preferred stock.The 1940 Act limits our ability to issue senior debt securities and preferred stock (collectively, “senior securities”), in certain circumstancesAs a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue senior securities if our asset coverage ratio does not exceed 200% immediately after each issuance of senior securities or is improved immediately upon the issuance. Asset coverage ratio is defined in the 1940 Act as the ratio that the value of the total assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, bears to the aggregate amount of senior securities representing indebtedness. There are no assurances that we will always operate above this ratio. The resulting restrictions on issuing senior securities could have a material adverse impact on our business operations to the extent we do not maintain such asset coverage ratio.The 1940 Act limits our ability to issue equity below our NAV per shareAs a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, exclusive of any distributing commission or discount, without stockholder approval. As of the date of this filing, we do not have such authorization; however, we may seek such approval in the future or we may elect to conduct a rights offering, which would not require stockholder approval under the 1940 Act. If our common stock trades at a price below our NAV per share, there are no assurances that we can issue or sell shares of our common stock if needed to fund our business. In addition, in certain instances where we could issue or sell shares of our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, including through our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan or through a rights offering, such issuance could result in dilution in our NAV per share, which could result in a decline of our stock price.We fund a portion of our investments with debt securities, which magnifies the potential for loss and the risks of investing in usAs a result of any issuance of debt securities, we would be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss and an increase in expenses, which are ultimately borne by our common stockholders. Payment of interest on such debt securities must take preference over any other dividends or other payments to our common stockholders. If we issue debt securities, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders.We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments with preferred stock, which would magnify the potential for loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowingsPreferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has similar risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative and they would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure. Payment of dividends on, and repayment of the liquidation preference of, such preferred stock would typically take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders. Also, preferred stockholders are not typically subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference. Furthermore, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and may have rights, preferences or privileges 24more favorable than those of our common stockholders. Also, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in our common stockholders’ best interest.The agreements governing our current and any future credit facilities may contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the relevant facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholdersWe finance our assets with secured debt. Our current credit facility does, and any future such credit facilities are likely to, contain default provisions such as the failure to make principal and interest payments when due; the failure to maintain a certain borrowing base; the insolvency or bankruptcy of us or the relevant financing subsidiary; and the decline of our or the relevant financing subsidiary’s NAV, as applicable, below a specified threshold.An event of default under the relevant facility may result, among other things, in the termination of the availability of further funds under the relevant facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding thereunder. This could disrupt our business, reduce our revenues, cause us to take losses, delay any dividends allowed to us under the facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business, make distribution payments to our stockholders and maintain our status as a RIC. In addition, each borrowing under our current (and any future) credit facility will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow funds under the relevant facility at any particular time or at all.Risks Related to Our Investing and Financing StrategyThere will be uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investmentsA substantial portion of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. We determine the fair value of these investments in accordance with the 1940 Act and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”) based on a determination made in good faith by our Board of Directors. For our investments that are not publicly traded, our determinations of fair value will be based upon certain inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing investments that are not publicly traded, our determination of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these investments existed. Our determination of the fair value of our investments will have a material impact on our net earnings and NAV.Changes in interest rates may increase our cost of capital, reduce the ability of our portfolio companies to service their debt obligations and adversely affect our profitability. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our rate of return on invested capital, our net investment income, our NAV and the market price of our common stock. A substantial portion of our debt investments have variable interest rates that reset periodically based on benchmarks such as LIBOR and the prime rate, so an increase in interest rates from their historically low present levels may make it more difficult for our portfolio companies to service their obligations under the debt investments that we hold. Given the low absolute level of interest rates, many of our debt investments have floors or benchmark minimums which are currently in excess of the actual benchmark rate in the market. Currently our financing facility is based on a similar benchmark but does not have any floors associated with it. Therefore any such increase to interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As such, our earnings will be affected by the spread between the interest rate on our investments and the interest rate at which we borrow funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use floating rate debt to finance our investments. Additionally, in periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could reset at rates faster than those of our assets, which could reduce our net investment income. These risks are also prevalent in our CLO investments where the floating rate collateral assets may have benchmark floors while its debt may have a floating component without a floor or minimum base rate. As such, the spread compression risk explained above could be magnified in our CLO investments due to the higher leverage deployed resulting in a negative impact to our earnings and NAV. A change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitabilityWe may make investments in debt instruments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our domestic portfolio companies may also transact a significant amount of business in foreign countries and therefore their profitability may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result, an adverse change in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.25We may be unable to invest proceeds from investment sales/repayments or follow-on offerings of shares of our common stock on acceptable terms within an attractive time frameDelays in investing the proceeds from investment sales or repayments along with any net proceeds raised in follow-on offerings of shares of our common stock may cause our performance to be worse than that of other fully invested BDCs or other lenders or investors pursuing comparable investment strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any new investments that meet our investment objective or that any additional investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the proceeds from investments or net proceeds of any follow-on offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.We have restrictions on the type of assets we can invest in as a BDCAs a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than certain qualifying assets described in the 1940 Act, unless, at the time of and after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets consist of such qualifying assets. Thus, in certain instances, we may be precluded from investing in potentially attractive investments that are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. In addition, there is a risk that this restriction could prevent us from making additional investments in any non-qualifying investments we may acquire, which could cause our position to be diluted or limit our access to capital of non-qualifying investments.The investments in which we invest are generally traded over-the-counter, if at all, and may experience limited liquidityOur investments may experience periods with limited or no liquidity. The absence of liquidity may make it difficult for us to ascertain a market value for our investments, may limit or preclude our ability to exit underperforming investments, and may negatively impact the ability for issuers of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans to refinance. As a result, periods of heightened illiquidity may adversely impact the performance of our portfolio and could persist for prolonged periods.Because we generally do not hold controlling interests in the Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans or the issuers of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans in which we invest, we may not be in a position to exercise control over issuers or to prevent decisions by management teams at issuers that could decrease the value of our investmentsWe generally do not hold equity positions or controlling interests in the issuers of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans in which we invest. As a result, we are subject to the risk that an issuer of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of an issuer may take risks or otherwise act in ways that will be adverse to our interests.An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturnsWe invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Manager to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product or service lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. These factors could adversely affect our investment returns as compared to companies investing primarily in the securities of public companies.We intend to continue to finance our investments with borrowed money, and may securitize our investments in the future, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.The use of leverage, including through the issuance of senior securities, magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. Our lenders will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such holders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instruments into which we may enter. In addition, under the terms of any credit facility or other debt instrument we enter into, we may be required by its terms to use the net proceeds of investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses.If the value of our assets decreases, leverage would cause NAV to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our ability to service our debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expense and any increase in the management fee.26As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we cannot incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Manager and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us.Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged with debtThe debt levels of our portfolio companies may have significant adverse consequences to such companies and to us as an investor. Portfolio companies that are indebted may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A company’s income and net worth will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if the company did not capitalize itself in part with debt.Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, some of our investments in such companiesOur portfolio companies typically may be permitted to incur other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, some of such debt instruments, including unitranche, second lien, middle market loans and unsecured debt instruments. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we will be entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we will invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. In such cases, after repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we will invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.Our borrowers may default on their payments, which may have a materially negative effect on our financial performance.Our primary business exposes us to credit risk, and the quality of our portfolio has a significant impact on our earnings. Credit risk is a component of our fair valuation of our portfolio companies. Negative credit events will lead to a decrease in the fair value of our portfolio companies and may potentially disrupt or impact the ability to pay amounts due to us thereby resulting in a decline in our earnings and NAV. In addition, market conditions can affect consumer confidence levels, which may harm the business of our portfolio companies and result in adverse changes in payment patterns. Additionally, if interest rates rise, some of our portfolio companies may not be able to pay the escalating interest on our loans and may default. Deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased delinquencies and default rates would negatively impact our results of operations. A general economic downturn or severe tightening in the credit markets could materially impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a significant negative affect on us. Numerous other factors may affect a borrower’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan or a downturn in its industry. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans or foreclosure on the secured assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the loans or debt securities that we hold. In addition, our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks senior to or equally with our securities. This means that payments on such senior-ranking securities may have to be made before we receive any payments on our subordinated loans or debt securities. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in any related collateral and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Certain of the issuers of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans in which we invest may enter into bankruptcy proceedingsSenior Secured Floating Rate Loan issuers may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by an issuer may adversely and permanently affect the issuer. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may be significantly less than the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs of a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the 27number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial.Our investments in Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans involve risk and we could lose all or part of our investmentInvesting in Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans involves a number of significant risks. Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans in which we invest may be issued by companies with limited financial resources and limited access to alternative financing. Issuers of Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of collateral backing our investments. This could lead to a decline in value of our portfolio, which could result in a decline in our net earnings and NAV.Second priority liens on collateral securing loans in which we invest may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and usSome loans in which we invest may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing first priority debt of our portfolio companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we may make to portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken with respect to the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.Investments in non-investment grade CLO securities may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returnsOur investments in CLO securities are generally non-investment grade. Non-investment grade CLO securities tend to be illiquid, have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value than investment grade bonds. Recessions or poor economic or pricing conditions in the markets associated with CLO securities may cause higher defaults or losses than expected. Non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain. We invest in equity securities of CLOs, and may invest in debt securities of CLOs, collateralized primarily by Loans. Accordingly, such securities involve the same risks associated with investing in Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans on a levered basis, including credit risk and market risk. Changes in a variety of factors, including interest rates, defaults, interest rate spreads, interest rate curves, investor perception of macroeconomic risks and market outlook, and demand for debt securities issued by CLOs may cause the cash flows provided by and the market prices for CLO securities to fluctuate significantly. CLOs are typically privately offered and sold and CLO securities may be thinly traded or have a limited trading market. Some of our investments in CLOs may be in newly issued CLOs. Generally, new-issue CLOs make their initial distribution to underlying debt and equity tranches six to nine months after closing, and subsequent payments are generally made on a quarterly basis. Additionally, equity securities of CLOs do not have a stated coupon and only have claims to residual cash flows after payments to securities ranked senior to equity securities have been made. Changes in a variety of factors, including interest rates, defaults, interest rate spreads, interest rate curves and performance of collateral underlying CLO securities may cause the cash flows generated by our investments in the debt and equity tranches of CLOs to fluctuate significantly, and in certain instances may be shut off all together either temporarily or permanently. Therefore, the cash flows and earnings we receive from our CLO investments may fluctuate significantly.We invest in CLO securities that are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securitiesCLO equity securities are the first to bear losses resulting from defaults and losses from underlying collateral. As a result, investments in CLO equity securities carry significant risks, including, but not limited to the possibility that distributions from 28CLO equity securities may decline or cease altogether should the quality of the collateral deteriorate, decline in value or default. Therefore, we may fail to achieve our expected investment returns from CLO equity securities.Our investments in CLO securities may be riskier and less transparent to us and our stockholders than direct investments in the underlying companiesWe invest in equity tranches and may invest in debt tranches of CLOs. Generally, there will be less information available to us regarding the underlying investments held by such CLO vehicles than if we had invested directly in the underlying companies. As a result, our stockholders will not know the details of the underlying securities of the CLO vehicles in which we invest. Our CLO investments are subject to the risk of leverage associated with the debt issued by such CLOs and the repayment priority of senior debt holders in such CLO vehicles. The accounting and tax implications of such investments are complicated. In particular, reported revenue from the equity tranche investments of these CLO vehicles are recorded each quarter in accordance with GAAP under the effective interest rate method based on the future projected cash flows. Our current taxable earnings on these investments, however, will depend upon the ownership of the CLO equity tranche as well as for certain CLOs any election we make to mark-to-market our taxable income. Our current taxable income will generally not be determinable until after the end of the fiscal year of each individual CLO vehicle that ends within our fiscal year and may be materially different from both the cash distributions we receive and revenue we record in accordance with GAAP. In general, we may be required to record current taxable income based on our proportionate share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the CLO vehicle or based on changes to fair value if we elect mark-to-market treatment for certain eligible CLO investments, even if such income is not distributed to us by the CLO vehicle. As a result, the reported revenue to our stockholders under GAAP from investments in these CLO vehicles may not be reflective of the taxable income we record for such investments, and the current cash flow we receive from these CLO investments may be less than the current taxable income we record from these investments that we are required to distribute to our stockholders.CLOs typically will have no significant assets other than their underlying Senior Secured Floating Rate LoansCLOs typically will have no significant assets other than their underlying Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans. Accordingly, payments on CLO investments are and will be payable solely from the cash flows from such Loans, net of all management fees and other expenses. Payments to us as a holder of CLO junior securities are and will be made only after payments due on the senior securities. It may adversely impact our returns if the cash flows from the Loans are insufficient to repay our CLO investments.There is the potential for interruption and deferral of cash flow from CLO investmentsIf certain minimum collateral coverage ratios and/or interest coverage ratios are not met by a CLO, then cash flows that otherwise would have been available to pay distributions to us on our CLO investments may instead be used to redeem any senior notes or to purchase additional Loans, until the ratios again exceed the minimum required levels or any senior notes are repaid in full. This could result in a reduction in the distribution and/or principal paid to the holders of the CLO investments, which would adversely impact our returns.Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans that are collateral of our CLO investments are subject to prepayments and calls, increasing re-investment risk, and the inability of a CLO collateral manager to reinvest the proceeds of the prepayment of its loan collateral may adversely affect usThe underlying Loans of our CLO investments may be prepaid more quickly than expected, which could have an adverse impact on the value of our CLO investment. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently cannot be predicted with certainty. There can be no assurance that for any CLO investment, in the event that any of the Loans of a CLO underlying such investment are prepaid, the CLO collateral manager will be able to reinvest such proceeds in new Loans with equivalent investment returns. If the CLO collateral manager cannot reinvest in new Loans with equivalent investment returns, the proceeds available to pay interest, principal or other distributions to the CLO securities may be adversely affected.We may not have the ability to control the timing of a call position on our CLO investmentsOur CLO investments generally contain optional call provisions, exercisable at the discretion of the holders of the equity tranches, after the expiration of an initial period in the deal (referred to as the “non-call period”) which provide for the senior notes and the junior secured notes to be paid in full. The exercise of the call option is by the relevant percentage (usually a majority) of the holders of the equity tranche. Therefore, where we do not hold the relevant percentage, we will not be able to control the timing of the exercise of the call option. The equity tranche also generally has a call at any time based on certain tax event triggers. In any event, the call can only be exercised by the holders of the equity tranche if they can demonstrate (in accordance with the detailed provisions in the transaction) that the senior notes and junior secured notes will be paid in full if the call is exercised.We have limited control of the administration and amendment of Loans owned by the CLOs in which we investWe will not be able to directly enforce any rights and remedies in the event of a default of a Loan held by a CLO vehicle. In addition, the terms and conditions of the Loans underlying our CLO investments may be amended, modified or waived only 29by the agreement of the underlying lenders. Generally, any such agreement must include a majority or a super majority (measured by outstanding loans or commitments) or, in certain circumstances, a unanimous vote of the lenders. Consequently, the terms and conditions of the payment obligations arising from Loans could be modified, amended or waived in a manner contrary to our preferences.We have limited control of the administration and amendment of any CLO in which we investThe terms and conditions of CLOs may be amended, modified or waived only by the agreement of the underlying security holders. Generally, any such agreement must include a majority or a super majority (measured by outstanding amounts) or, in certain circumstances, a unanimous vote of the security holders. Consequently, the terms and conditions of the payment obligation arising from the CLOs in which we invest may be modified, amended or waived in a manner contrary to our preferences.We will have no influence on management of underlying investments managed by non-affiliated third-party CLO collateral managersWe are not responsible for and have no influence over the asset management of the portfolios underlying the CLO investments we hold as those portfolios are managed by non-affiliated third-party CLO collateral managers. Similarly, we are not responsible for and have no influence over the day-to-day management, administration or any other aspect of the issuers of the individual securities. As a result, the performance and values of the portfolios underlying our CLO investments could decrease as a result of decisions made by third-party CLO collateral managers.Engaging in hedging transactions may expose us to additional risksWe may enter into interest rate or currency hedges. Hedging against interest rate and currency fluctuations may expose us to additional risks and could harm our financial performance. Our use of hedging would not eliminate the risk that the value of our investments could decline or that our investment performance would be better off if we did not hedge. The effectiveness of our hedging is dependent on the price we pay for the hedge and the correlation of the hedge to the risk it is designed to mitigate. It may arise that the cost of a hedging instrument exceeds its expected benefits or that an instrument may not hedge all of the risk for which it was designed to mitigate. Additionally, the use of hedging instruments exposes us to counterparty risk including the failure to perform under the contract such as nonpayment.Risks Related to Our Common StockInvesting in our common stock may involve an above average degree of riskThe investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time, and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capitalWe intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions.The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantlyThe market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following:•price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies;•significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs, financial service companies, asset managers or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of particular companies;•changes in laws, regulatory policies, tax guidelines or financial accounting standards, particularly with respect to BDCs or RICs;•not qualifying as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status;•changes in our earnings or variations in operating results;30•any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts and the market in general;•decreases in our NAV per share;•general economic trends and other external factors; and•loss of a major funding source.Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital.Our shares of common stock may trade at a substantial discount from NAV and may continue to do so over the long termOur shares of common stock may trade at a market price that is less than the NAV that is attributable to those shares. The possibility that our shares of common stock will trade at a substantial discount from NAV over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV will decrease. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our NAV. If our common stock trades below its NAV, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares or sell our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, and our NAV could decrease and our level of distributions could be impacted.Our common stock may be difficult to resellInvestors may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above their purchase prices due to a number of factors, including:•actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results;•volatility in our common stock price;•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; and•departures of key personnel.Certain provisions in our charter and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our common stockProvisions in our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued classes or series of preferred stock, each without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a class or series of preferred stock to impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. These and other provisions in our charter and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our common stockholders. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our charter and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor.Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of our companyCertain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests. Subject to certain limitations, provisions of the MGCL prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who beneficially owned 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock during the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) or an affiliate of the interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. After the five-year period, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of the interested stockholder must generally either provide a minimum price to our stockholders (as defined in the MGCL) in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder or be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of voting stock and at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders other than the interested stockholder and its affiliates and associates. These provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by 31our Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has, by resolution, exempted business combinations between us and American Capital and its affiliates, and between us and any other person, provided that in the latter case the business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). However, our Board of Directors may repeal or modify this resolution at any time in the future, in which case the applicable provisions of this statute will become applicable to business combinations between us and interested stockholders.The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that holders of “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, our officers and our employees who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. However, so long as we are a BDC, we will amend our bylaws to be subject to the control share acquisition statute only if our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our best interests based on our determination that our being subject to the control share acquisition statute does not conflict with the 1940 Act.Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect to be subject to certain provisions relating to corporate governance that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests. Upon the consummation of this offering, we will already be subject to some of these provisions, either by provisions of our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8 or by reason of an election in our charter to be subject to certain provisions of Subtitle 8.Our Board of Directors has the power to cause us to issue additional shares of our stock without stockholder approvalOur charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our common stockholders will bear the expenses associated with our borrowings, and the holders of our debt securities, if any, will have certain rights senior to our common stockholdersAll of the costs of offering and servicing our debt, including interest thereon, will be borne by our common stockholders. The interests of the holders of any debt we may issue will not necessarily be aligned with the interests of our common stockholders. In particular, the rights of holders of our debt to receive interest or principal repayment will be senior to those of our common stockholders. In addition, we may grant a lender a security interest in a significant portion or all of our assets, even if the total amount we may borrow from such lender is less than the amount of such lender's security interest in our assets. Our shares of common stock have a limited trading history and we cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not declineOur shares of common stock have a limited trading history and we cannot assure you that a public trading market will be sustained for such shares. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. We cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not decline at any time. In addition, if our common stock trades below our NAV per share, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at the market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders (including our unaffiliated stockholders) and our independent directors for such issuance.Our stockholders could experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment planAll dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan could experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time if we issue additional shares of our common stock as part of the dividend reinvestment plan.32You may have current tax liabilities on distributions that are reinvested in our common stockUnder the dividend reinvestment plan, if you own shares of our common stock, you will have all cash distributions automatically reinvested in additional shares of our common stock unless you, or your nominee on your behalf, specifically "opt out" of the dividend reinvestment plan by delivering a written notice to the plan administrator prior to the record date of the next dividend or distribution. If you have not “opted out” of the dividend reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your federal income tax liability on the value of the common stock received. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information.We may in the future choose to pay distributions partly in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receiveWe may make taxable distributions that are payable in part in our stock. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) has issued private letter rulings to other RIC taxpayers in the past that allowed the RIC taxpayer to treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its RIC annual distribution requirement under certain circumstances. In addition, the IRS has issued revenue procedures in the past that temporarily allowed a RIC to treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its RIC annual distribution requirements under certain circumstances (although those periods to which those revenue procedures applied have expired). We may seek to obtain a similar private letter ruling from the IRS, or the IRS may issue revenue procedures in the future allowing RICs to treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its RIC annual distribution requirements. As a result, a stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such distributions in excess of any cash received. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.