Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information included in this combined annual report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Risks Related to the Lodging Industry We operate in a highly competitive industry. The lodging industry is highly competitive. We compete with traditional hotels and lodging facilities (including limited service hotels), other purpose built extended stay hotels (including those owned and operated by major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands and individually-owned extended stay hotels) and alternative lodging (including serviced apartments). We expect that competition within the mid-price and economy segments of the extended stay lodging market will continue as we face increased competition from third-party internet travel intermediaries, such as Priceline.com, Expedia.com and Travelocity.com, and specialized intermediaries that locate and reserve hotel rooms for corporate lodgers. We compete based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels, convenience of location, reputation, reservation systems, brand recognition, supply and availability of alternative lodging and ability to reach people through multiple channels. See “Business—Competition.” To maintain our rates, we may face pressure to offer increased services and amenities at our hotel properties, comparable to those offered at traditional hotels, which could increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability. We do not expect to increase our rates to match our competitors, and a number of our competitors have a significant number of individuals participating in well established guest loyalty programs, which may enable them to attract more customers and more effectively retain such customers. Our competitors may also have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, which could allow them to reduce their rates, offer greater convenience, services or amenities, build new hotels in direct competition with our existing hotels, improve their properties, and expand and improve their marketing efforts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lodging industry, including the extended stay segment, is cyclical and a worsening of general economic conditions or low levels of economic growth could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The performance of the lodging industry, including the extended stay segment, is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Declines in corporate budgets and spending and consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and high unemployment or adverse political conditions can lower the revenues and profitability of our hotels. Changes in consumer demand and general business cycles can subject, and have subjected, our revenues to significant volatility. The majority of our expenses are relatively fixed. These fixed expenses include labor costs, interest, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, all of which may increase at a greater rate than our revenues. The expenses of owning and operating hotels are not significantly reduced when circumstances such as market 8 Table of Contents and economic factors and competition cause a reduction in revenues. Where cost-cutting efforts are insufficient to offset declines in revenues, we could experience a material decline in margins and reduced operating cash flows or losses. If we are unable to decrease our expenses significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels decreases, the decline in our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our net operating cash flows and profitability. This effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth, such as the recent economic recession. In addition to general economic conditions, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry’s performance and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative effect of an economic downturn or precipitate a cycle turn. Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. Decline in hotel room demand, or a continued growth in hotel room supply, could result in revenues that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. See “Business—Our Industry” for a description of increases in hotel room supply. The extended stay segment has tended to follow the overall cyclicality of the lodging industry. In periods of declining demand, competition for guests may result in more reliance on longer-term guests, who generally pay lower rates than shorter-term guests, which could reduce revenues, margins and profitability. Equally, in periods of increasing demand, a transition to shorter-term guests paying higher rates might result in increased hotel expenses for amenities considered necessary to attract those guests, such as daily rather than weekly housekeeping, potentially reducing operating margins. Uncertainty regarding the rate and pace of recovery from the recent economic downturn and the impact any such recovery may have on the lodging industry makes it difficult to predict future profitability levels. A slowing of the current economic recovery or new economic weakness could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are subject to the operating risks common to the lodging industry. Changes in general and local economic and market conditions and other factors beyond our control as well as the business, financial, operating and other risks common to the lodging industry and inherent to the ownership of hotels could materially adversely affect demand for lodging products and services. This includes demand for rooms at hotel properties that we own, operate and potentially develop or acquire. These factors include: • changes in the relative mix of extended stay brands in various industry price categories; • over-building of hotels in our markets; • changes in the desirability of particular geographic locations, lodging preferences and travel patterns of customers; • increases in customer price sensitivity, making it more difficult to achieve planned ADR increases; • dependence on corporate and commercial travelers and on tourism; • decreased demand for longer-term lodging or lodging facilities; • decreased corporate budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business; • high levels of unemployment and depressed housing prices; 9 Table of Contents • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • increases in the cost, or the lack of availability, of capital to operate, maintain and renovate our hotel properties; • potential increases in labor costs, including as a result of increases to federal and state minimum wage levels, unionization of the labor force and increasing health care insurance expense; • changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and • events beyond our control that may disproportionately affect the travel industry, such as war, terrorist attacks, travel-related health concerns, transportation and fuel prices, interruptions in transportation systems, travel-related accidents, fires, natural disasters and severe weather. These factors can adversely affect, and from time to time have materially adversely affected, individual hotel properties, particular regions or our business as a whole. How we manage any one or more of these factors, or any crisis, could limit or reduce demand and the rates we are able to charge for rooms or services, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and future growth. These factors may be exacerbated by the relatively illiquid nature of our real estate holdings, which limits our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations. The lodging industry is seasonal in nature. The Company’s occupancy rates and revenues generally are lower during the first and fourth quarter of each calendar year. Quarterly variations in hotel revenues could materially adversely affect the Company’s near term operating revenues and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our financial performance and success depend in large part on our ability to successfully implement our business strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategies, realize any benefit from our strategies or be able to continue improving our results of operations. We may spend significant amounts in connection with our business strategies, which would result in increased costs but may not result in expected increased revenues or improved results of operations. Implementation of our business strategies could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal and regulatory developments, general economic conditions or increases in our operating costs. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may, in addition, decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategies at any time. Our capital expenditures may not result in our expected improvements in our business. We are executing a phased hotel reinvestment program across our portfolio in order to seek to drive incremental market share gains. As of December 31, 2014, we have substantially completed Platinum renovations at 335 hotels, with total incurred costs of approximately $331.8 million. Also, as of December 31, 10 Table of Contents 2014, we are in the process of implementing Platinum renovations at 47 additional hotels, with estimated total costs of approximately $46.2 million. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Corporation’s and ESH REIT’s Boards of Directors approved Platinum renovations for an additional 95 hotels totaling approximately $85.0 million, which are expected to be completed by early 2016. Once complete, we will have completed Platinum renovations at 477 hotels, which is approximately 75% of our Extended Stay America-branded hotels. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Expenditures.” The realization of returns on our investments in line with our expectations is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, events beyond our control, whether our assumptions in making the investment were correct and changes in the factors underlying our investment decision, such as changes in the tastes and preferences of our customers. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to see returns on our previous capital expenditure investments, that we will realize our expected returns on our current investments, or any returns at all, or that our future investments will result in our expected returns on investments, returns that are consistent with our prior returns on capital expenditure investments, or any returns at all. Growth that we do realize as a result of our capital expenditures is expected to stabilize over time. A failure to realize our expected returns on our investments in our hotel properties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Access to capital, timing, budgeting and other risks associated with the ongoing need for capital expenditures at our hotel properties could materially adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to compete effectively and pay distributions to our shareholders. The lodging industry is a capital intensive business that requires significant capital expenditures to own and operate hotel properties. In addition, we must maintain, renovate and improve our hotel properties in order to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our hotel properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Maintenance, renovations and improvements to our hotel properties create an ongoing need for cash and, to the extent we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. We also intend to pay regular distributions, which means we may not retain cash for future capital expenditures. Access to the capital that we need to renovate and maintain our existing hotel properties and to develop or acquire new hotel properties is critical to the continued growth of our business and our revenues. The availability of capital or the conditions under which we can obtain capital can have a significant impact on the overall level, cost and pace of future renovation or development and therefore the ability to meaningfully grow our revenues. As of December 31, 2014, we had total indebtedness of approximately $2.9 billion. Our substantial indebtedness may impair our ability to borrow additional amounts. Our ability to access additional capital could also be limited by the terms of our indebtedness and any future indebtedness, which restrict or will restrict our ability to incur debt under certain circumstances. In particular, ESH REIT’s $2.52 billion mortgage loan entered into on November 30, 2012 (the “ 2012 Mortgage Loan”) and ESH REIT’s $375.0 million term loan facility entered into on June 23, 2014 (the “2014 Term Loan”) prohibit any further encumbrances on the collateral securing that indebtedness, which is comprised of substantially all of our hotels. In the past, reduced investments in our properties resulted in declining performance of our business. Additionally, our ongoing operations and capital expenditures subject us to the following risks: • potential environmental problems, such as the need to remove or abate asbestos-containing materials; • design defects, construction cost overruns (including labor and materials) and delays; • difficulty obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; • the possibility that revenues will be reduced temporarily while rooms offered are out of service due to capital improvement projects; and • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available on affordable terms or at all. 11 Table of Contents If the cost of funding renovations or enhancements exceeds budgeted amounts, and/or the time period for renovation is longer than initially anticipated, our profits could be reduced. If we are forced to spend larger amounts of cash from operations than anticipated to operate, maintain or renovate existing hotel properties, then our ability to use cash for other purposes, including paying distributions to our shareholders or the potential development or acquisition of hotel properties, could be limited and our profits could be reduced. Similarly, if we cannot access the capital we need to fund our operations or implement our business strategies, we may need to postpone or cancel planned maintenance, renovations or improvements plans, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risks resulting from real estate ownership, which could increase our costs, reduce our profitability and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. Our principal assets consist of real property. Our real estate ownership subjects us to additional risks not applicable to those competitors in the lodging industry that only manage or franchise hotel properties, including: • the illiquid nature of real estate, which may limit our ability to promptly sell one or more hotels in our portfolio in response to changing financial conditions; • adverse changes in economic and market conditions; • real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws, including the condemnation of our properties; • fluctuations in real estate values or impairments in the value of our assets; • the ongoing need for capital improvements and expenditures to maintain, renovate or upgrade hotel properties; • risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; • the average age of hotels in our portfolio is approximately 16 years; • risks associated with the possibility that expense increases will outpace revenue increases and that in the event of an economic downturn, our high proportion of fixed expenses will make it difficult to reduce our expenses to the extent required to offset declining revenues; • changes in laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance; and • events beyond our control, such as war, terrorist attacks and force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, fires or floods. Economic and other conditions may materially adversely affect the valuation of our hotel properties resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and earnings. We hold goodwill, intangible assets and a significant amount of long-lived assets. We evaluate our tangible and intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently based on various triggers, including when a property has current or projected operating losses or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred, such that an asset’s value may not be recoverable. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies.” Times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values for real estate and real property. As a result, we have incurred, and are likely to incur in the future, impairment charges, which may be material and adversely affect our results of operations and earnings. 12 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of debt and the agreements governing our indebtedness place, and any future indebtedness may place, restrictions on us, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had total indebtedness of approximately $2.9 billion and the Company had a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.1x. In the future, subject to compliance with the covenants included in our current indebtedness, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and intercompany indebtedness to finance future hotel acquisitions, developments, renovation and improvement activities and for other corporate purposes. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition because it could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to make principal and interest payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing our cash flows available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance indebtedness on favorable terms or at all to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness or greater resources. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to pay our indebtedness, fund our other liquidity needs or pay distributions to our shareholders. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, our indebtedness will prevent us from paying cash distributions with respect to our stock. In such case, in order to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code, ESH REIT may distribute taxable stock dividends to its shareholders in the form of additional shares of its stock. We expect that we will need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms on or before maturity, commercially reasonable terms or at all, particularly because of our substantial levels of debt and because of restrictions on debt prepayment and additional debt incurrence contained in the agreements governing our existing debt. Our future results of operations and our ability to service, extend or refinance our indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that place restrictions on us. These covenants may restrict, among other activities, our ability to: • merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • sell, transfer, pledge or encumber our stock or the ownership interests of our subsidiaries; • incur additional debt; • enter into, terminate or modify leases for our hotel properties; • make certain expenditures, including capital expenditures; • pay distributions on or repurchase our capital stock; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the 2012 Mortgage Loan, the occurrence of (i) an Event of Default, (ii) a Debt Yield Trigger Event (a Debt Yield, as defined, of less than 9.0%) or (iii) a Guarantor Bankruptcy Event would result in a Cash Trap Event, each as defined. During the period of a Cash Trap Event, any excess cash flow, after all monthly requirements are fully funded (including the payment of budgeted management fees and operating expenses), would be held by the loan service agent as additional collateral for the 2012 Mortgage Loan, which would prevent ESH REIT from making cash distributions. 13 Table of Contents Under the Corporation Revolving Credit Facility, the occurrence of a Debt Yield Trigger Event or an Adjusted Debt Yield Trigger event (each as defined of less than 12.0% as of the last day of any calendar month), a Default or an Event of Default (each as defined) would require the Corporation to prepay advances existing under the Corporation Revolving Credit Facility and cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit. The Corporation may cure a Trigger Event by (a) repaying advances and cash collateralizing outstanding letters of credit, and (b) maintaining the threshold Debt Yield level for three consecutive months following the month in which the Trigger Event occurred. During a Trigger Event, a Default or an Event of Default, the Corporation is restricted from making cash distributions. As of December 31, 2014, the Corporation’s Debt Yield and Adjusted Debt Yield were 21.0% and 18.2%, respectively, and a Cash Trap Event was not in effect. Under the ESH Revolving Credit Facility and 2014 Term Loan, the occurrence of a Debt Yield Trigger Event or an Adjusted Debt Yield Trigger Event, (each as defined of less than 11.5% as of the last day of any calendar month), a Default or an Event of Default (each as defined) would require ESH REIT to prepay advances existing under ESH REIT Revolving Credit Facility and cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit. ESH REIT may cure a Trigger Event by (a) repaying advances and cash collateralizing outstanding letters of credit, and (b) maintaining the threshold Debt Yield level for three consecutive months following the month in which the Trigger Event occurred. During a Trigger Event, a Default or an Event of Default, ESH REIT is restricted from making cash distributions (subject to certain exceptions to be agreed). As of December 31, 2014, ESH REIT’s Debt Yield and Adjusted Debt Yield were 21.0% and 18.3%, respectively, and a Cash Trap Event was not in effect. These covenants could impair our ability to grow our business, take advantage of attractive business opportunities, successfully compete or pay distributions to shareholders. For a more detailed description of the covenants imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Our Indebtedness.” Our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of the covenants under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default. Cross-default provisions in the debt agreements could cause an event of default under one debt agreement to trigger an event of default under other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all outstanding debt under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay or refinance the accelerated debt, the lenders could proceed against any assets pledged to secure that debt, which could include the foreclosure on some or all of the hotel properties securing such indebtedness. Furthermore, the agreements governing any future indebtedness will likely contain covenants that place additional restrictions on us. Mortgage and term loan obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of any hotel property subject to mortgage or term loan debt. The 2012 Mortgage Loan is secured by mortgages on 678 of our 682 hotel properties and related assets. The 2014 Term Loan is secured by ESH REIT’s pledges of direct and indirect equity in the 2012 Mortgage Loan obligors. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations increases our risk of property losses because defaults on secured indebtedness may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the hotel properties or other properties securing such loans. If such obligors were in default under a loan, we could lose some or all of the hotel properties securing, directly or indirectly, such loan to foreclosure. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of our hotel properties would be treated as a sale of the hotel for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the hotel, ESH REIT would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder ESH REIT’s ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. ESH REIT may assume or incur new mortgage indebtedness on hotel properties that it develops or acquires in the future. Any default under any one of ESH REIT’s mortgage debt obligations may increase its risk of default on its other indebtedness. 14 Table of Contents Our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands or the lodging industry could materially adversely affect our market share, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. We operate the substantial majority of our hotels under our core brand, Extended Stay America. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of Extended Stay America and Crossland Economy Studios, the quality of our hotels and services and our corporate and management integrity. An incident involving the potential safety or security of our guests or employees, or negative publicity regarding safety or security at our competitors’ properties or in respect of our third-party vendors and the industry, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, may harm our brands and our reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in Extended Stay America and the industry, and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media and online review sites over recent years has compounded the potential scope and speed of any negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents, whether or not the description of any events by social media is accurate. Adverse incidents have occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future. In addition, we believe that the Corporation’s trademarks and other intellectual property are fundamental to the reputation of our brands. The Corporation develops, maintains, licenses and polices a substantial portfolio of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. To the extent necessary, the Corporation enforces its intellectual property rights to protect the value of its trademarks, our development activities, to protect our good name, to promote brand recognition, to enhance our competitiveness and to otherwise support our business goals and objectives. The Corporation relies on trademark laws to protect its proprietary rights. Monitoring for unauthorized use of the Corporation’s intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Corporation’s intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against the Corporation and could significantly harm our results of operations. From time to time, the Corporation applies to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps the Corporation has taken to protect its trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of its trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of the Corporation’s trademarks could diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation over environmental, health and safety matters. Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose liability for contamination. Under these laws, governmental entities have the authority to require us, as the current or former owner of the property, to perform or pay for the clean-up of contamination (including hazardous substances, waste or petroleum products) at or emanating from the property and to pay for natural resource damage arising from contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. Such liability can be joint and several, so that each covered person can be responsible for all of the costs involved, even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination. We can also be liable to private parties for costs of remediation, personal injury and death and/or property damage resulting from contamination at or emanating from our hotel properties. Moreover, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, persons who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, may be liable for costs associated with cleanup of that facility. In addition, our hotels (including our real property, operations and equipment) are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, the use, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, air 15 Table of Contents emissions, discharges of waste materials (such as refuge or sewage), the registration, maintenance and operation of our boilers and storage tanks, asbestos and lead-based paint. Some of our hotels also routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations, which are subject to regulation (for example, swimming pool chemicals or biological waste). Our hotels incur costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and if these regulatory requirements are not met or become more stringent in the future or unforeseen events result in the discharge of dangerous or toxic substances at our hotel properties, we could be subject to increased costs of compliance, fines and penalties for non-compliance and material liability from third parties for harm to the environment, damage to real property or personal injury and death. In particular, certain hotels we currently own or those we acquire in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, ACM. Environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained, and include requirements to undertake special precautions, such as removal or abatement, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation or demolition of a building. These laws regarding ACM may impose fines and penalties on building owners, employers and operators for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability. The geographic concentration of our portfolio may make us particularly susceptible to adverse economic developments in those geographic areas in which we operate a substantial portion of our hotels. The concentration of our hotel properties in a particular geographic area may materially impact our operating results if that area is impacted by negative economic developments. As of December 31, 2014, 13.6% of our rooms were in California, 10.3% of our rooms were in Texas, 7.9% of our rooms were in Florida and 5.2% of our rooms were in Illinois. We are particularly susceptible to adverse economic or other conditions in these markets (such as periods of economic slowdown or recession, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes and the cost of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation), as well as to natural disasters or terrorist events that occur in these markets. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected by any significant adverse developments in any of those markets. Our operations may also be materially adversely affected if competing hotels are built in these markets. Furthermore, submarkets within any of these markets may be dependent on the economic performance of a limited number of industries which drive those markets. We may seek to expand through development or acquisitions of other companies and hotel properties, and we may also seek to diversify through franchising; these activities may be unsuccessful or divert our management’s attention. We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of other companies and hotel properties. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Acquisitions of companies or hotel properties are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: • failing to consummate acquisitions after incurring significant transaction costs; • issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders; • spending cash and incurring significant debt; • contributing hotel properties or related assets to ventures that could result in recognition of losses; • assuming unknown and contingent liabilities; or • creating additional expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify acquisition opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits 16 Table of Contents from such acquisitions. There may be high barriers to entry, including restrictive zoning laws, limited availability of hotel properties and higher costs of land, in many key markets and scarcity of available acquisition, development and investment opportunities in desirable locations. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for developments or acquisitions on attractive terms or at all, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our current or future indebtedness. In addition, our pairing arrangement may prevent our use of common tax-free acquisition structures, which may increase the cost and difficulty of acquiring other businesses and hotel properties and inhibit our ability to expand through acquisitions in which consideration other than cash is contemplated. The success of any acquisition will also depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition with our existing operations. We may experience difficulty with integrating acquired companies, hotel properties or other assets, including difficulties relating to: • acquiring hotel properties with undisclosed defects in design or construction or requiring unanticipated capital improvements; • entering new markets; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • integrating information technology systems; and • preserving the important licensing, distribution, marketing, customer, labor and other relationships of the acquired assets. We own and operate all of the hotel properties associated with our brands. In the future, we may seek to realize the benefits of franchising and franchise certain of our hotel properties pursuant to agreements with third-party franchisees. We currently do not have experience operating a significant franchising business and expect that the development and implementation of any franchise system will require significant expenditures and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The viability of any franchising business will depend on our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with franchisees. If we enter the franchising business, we may be exposed to additional risks, including, but not limited to, the financial condition and access to capital of franchisees, reputational harm due to the action of franchisees and litigation as a result of disagreements with franchisees. We cannot guarantee that we will seek to expand or diversify our business through franchising in the near future. In addition, any such development, acquisition or franchising activity could demand significant attention from our management that would otherwise be available for our current ongoing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increase in the use of third-party internet intermediaries to book online hotel reservations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the rooms at our hotels are booked through third-party internet travel intermediaries and other online travel service providers. These intermediaries primarily focus on leisure travel and also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. Intermediaries use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as “Extended Stay” from internet search engines to steer customers toward their websites. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation system rather than to our brands. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if travel intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our brands to their reservation systems and diverting bookings away from our website or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. 17 Table of Contents A failure by our intermediaries to attract or retain their customer bases could lower demand for hotel rooms and, in turn, reduce our revenues from these [distribution] channels. Additionally, if bookings by these third-party intermediaries increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or other significant contract concessions from us, increasing the overall cost of these third-party distribution channels. Some of our distribution agreements with these companies are not exclusive, have a short term, are terminable at will or are subject to early termination provisions. The loss of distributors, increased distribution costs or the renewal of distribution agreements on significantly less favorable terms could adversely impact our business. We are reliant upon technology and the disruption or malfunction in our information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business. The lodging industry depends upon the use of sophisticated information technology and systems, including those utilized for reservations, revenue and property management, procurement and operation of our administrative systems. For example, we depend on our central reservation system, which allows bookings of hotel rooms directly, via telephone through our call centers, by travel agents, online through our website and through our online reservation partners. We operate third-party systems, making us reliant on third-party service providers, data communication networks and software upgrades, maintenance and support. Many of our information technology systems are outdated and require substantial upgrading. These technologies are costly and are expected to require refinements that may cause disruptions to many of our key information and technology systems. If we are unable to replace or introduce information technology and other systems as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs or schedules, or if we are unable to achieve the intended benefits of any new information technology or other systems, including our new revenue management system, our results of operations could be adversely affected and our ability to compete effectively could be diminished. Further, we have from time to time experienced disruptions of these systems, and disruptions of the operation of these systems as a result of failures related to our internal or our service provider systems and support may occur in the future. Information technology systems that we rely upon are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • events beyond our control, such as war, terrorist attacks and force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, blizzards, hurricanes, fires or floods; • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, service provider negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, user error, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, cyber attacks, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. The occurrence of any of these problems at any of our information technology facilities, any of our call centers or any third party service providers could cause interruptions or delays in our business or loss of data, or render us unable to process reservations. In addition, if our information technology systems are unable to provide the information communications capacity that we need, or if our information technology systems suffer problems caused by installing system enhancements, we could experience similar failures or interruptions. If our information technology systems fail and our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans are not adequate to address such failures, or if our property and business interruption insurance does not sufficiently compensate us for any losses that we may incur, our revenues and profits could be reduced and the reputation of our brands and our business could be harmed. Cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions and harm our reputation or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits, or limit our ability to accept credit cards. Our businesses require the collection, transmission and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers, in various 18 Table of Contents information technology systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services. We and our service providers also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is critical to us. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions. Further, our customers and employees have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The information, security and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation are increasingly demanding. Our systems may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and customer and employee expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data all threaten our and our service provider’s information systems and records. Our reliance on computer, internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. A breach in the security of our information technology systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. Additionally, a significant theft, loss or misappropriation of, or access to, customers’ or other proprietary data or other breach of our information technology systems could result in fines, legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, or liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, which could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (the “PCI DSS”), a set of requirements administered by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, an independent body created by the major credit card brands, designed to ensure that companies handling credit card information maintain a secure environment. In prior years, we failed to maintain compliance with the PCI DSS and accordingly were subject to monthly penalties imposed by VISA. We are currently in compliance with the PCI DSS. If we fail to maintain PCI DSS compliance, we could become subject to penalties or lose our ability to accept credit card payments. As approximately 80.0% of our hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were paid by credit card, loss of the ability to accept credit cards for payment would create a significant disruption to our operations, could reduce our occupancy levels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in privacy laws could adversely affect our ability to market effectively. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and postal mailings. Restrictions in laws such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CAN-SPAM Act and various state laws or new federal laws regarding marketing and solicitation or data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email and postal mailing techniques and could force changes in our marketing strategies. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our revenues. In addition, any violation of these laws could result in significant penalties. We also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers and other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company’s marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our services could be materially impaired. We are exposed to a variety of risks associated with safety, security and crisis management. There is a constant need to protect the safety and security of our guests, employees and assets against natural and man-made threats. These threats include, but are not limited to, exceptional events such as extreme weather, civil or political unrest, violence and terrorism, serious and organized crime, fraud, employee dishonesty, cyber crime, fire and day-to-day accidents, incidents and petty crime, which impact the guest or 19 Table of Contents employee experience, could cause loss of life, sickness or injury and result in compensation claims, fines from regulatory bodies, litigation and impact our reputation. Serious incidents or a combination of events could escalate into a crisis, which if managed poorly by us could further expose our brands to reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our hotel properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has increased as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our hotel properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our guests, employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to our hotel properties could materially adversely affect our ability to make future developments, acquisitions or renovations, result in significant costs or delays and adversely affect our business strategies. Our hotels are subject to various local laws and regulatory requirements that address our ability to obtain licenses for our operations. In particular, we are subject to permitting and licensing requirements, which can restrict the use of our hotel properties and increase the cost of development, acquisition, renovation or operation of our hotels. In addition, federal and state laws and regulations, including laws such as the ADA, impose further restrictions on our operations. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be subject to audits or investigations of all of our hotels to determine our compliance. Some of our hotels may not be fully compliant with the ADA. If one or more of the hotels in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA or any other regulatory requirements, we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance and we might be required to pay damages or governmental fines. In addition, the obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one. Existing requirements may change and future requirements may require us to make significant unanticipated capital expenditures that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Hospitality companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state law and other claims, and we may be subject to legal claims. Our operating income and profits may be reduced by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees, customers or other third parties. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and other alleged violations of law. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type or other claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in federal, state, local or foreign tax regulation or disputes with tax authorities could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and profitability by increasing our tax or tax compliance costs in the United States and Canada. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimations and significant judgments and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is 20 Table of Contents uncertain. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the United States and Canada. Our future tax rates could be materially adversely affected by changes in the composition of our earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of or valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and liabilities and substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof by United States federal, state, local and foreign governments, all of which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation and could adversely affect our profitability. Further, our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our profits to the extent potential tax liabilities exceed our reserves, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made, as well as future periods. In addition, the recent economic downturn has reduced tax revenues for United States federal, state and local governments and as a result tax authorities have increased their efforts to raise revenues through changes in tax laws and audits. Increased efforts by tax authorities to raise revenues through changes in tax laws and audits could materially increase our consolidated effective tax rate. Increases in ESH REIT’s real estate taxes could materially adversely affect our profitability and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Hotel properties are subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as ESH REIT’s hotel properties continue to be assessed and reassessed by taxing authorities. In particular, ESH REIT’s real estate taxes could increase following acquisitions as acquired properties are reassessed. In recent periods, state and local governments have continued to seek to increase real estate taxes. If real estate taxes continue to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ESH REIT’s ability to make distributions to its shareholders could be materially adversely affected. Our insurance may not fully compensate us for damage to or losses involving our hotel properties. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage, in the types and amounts we believe are adequate and customary in our industry. Nevertheless, there are some types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist acts or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information technology systems, that may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. Additionally, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of insurance coverage that we can obtain or restrict our ability to obtain insurance coverage at reasonable rates. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. We use our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view toward obtaining appropriate insurance on our hotel properties at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. In the event of significant damage or loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement value of our investment in a property, and in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. In addition, inflation, changes in building codes and zoning ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might make it impossible or impractical to use insurance proceeds to replace or repair a property that has been damaged or destroyed. Under these and other circumstances, insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to a damaged or destroyed property. Accordingly, ESH REIT could lose some or all of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and ESH REIT could remain obligated for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations of the property. Our debt instruments contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. Although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that the lenders under our debt instruments will not take the position that we do not have sufficient insurance coverage and therefore are in breach of these instruments allowing the lenders to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Our success and our ability to implement our business strategies will depend in large part upon the efforts and skills of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. In recent years, we have experienced turnover of several senior management roles and we have focused time and resources on recruiting or promoting from within the new members of our current senior management team. The continued turnover of senior management or the unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our key officers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our business and operating strategies. Labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our hotels or implement our business strategies or result in increased labor costs that could reduce our profitability. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage our employees. Our hotels are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by approximately 8,700 employees around the country. If we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees, our ability to manage and staff our hotel properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction and harm our reputation. Staffing shortages could also hinder our ability to implement our business strategy. Because payroll costs are a major component of hotel operating expenses and our general and administrative expenses, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profitability and limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders. In addition, increases in minimum wage rates could result in significantly increased costs for us and result in reduced margins and profitability. Attempts by labor organizations to organize groups of our employees or changes in labor laws could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on implementing our business strategies. We may become subject to collective bargaining agreements, similar agreements or regulations enforced by governmental entities in the future. Changes in the federal regulatory scheme could make it easier for unions to organize groups of our employees. If relationships with our employees or other field personnel deteriorate or become adverse, our hotel properties could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts and public demonstrations. Additionally, if such changes take effect, our employees or other field personnel could be subject to organizational efforts, which could potentially lead to disruptions or require our management’s time to address unionization issues. Labor regulation could also lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses and legal costs, and limit our ability to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. These or similar agreements, legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, hinder our ability to cross-train and cross-promote our employees due to prescribed work rules and job classifications, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business and operating strategies. Adverse judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to operate our business. In the normal course of our business, we are often involved in various legal proceedings. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including guests who use our hotels, our employees, our shareholders or regulators. Any significant adverse determinations, judgments or settlements could reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or limit our ability to operate our business. Further, we may incur costs related to claims for which we have appropriate third party indemnity, but such third parties fail to fulfill their contractual obligations. See “Item 3-Legal Proceedings.” 22 Table of Contents We may be liable for indemnification or similar payments relating to the Company Predecessor in accordance with the Fifth Amended Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”), the bankruptcy court’s order confirming the Plan (the “Confirmation Order”), and under certain agreements providing for indemnification in connection with the bankruptcy and/or reorganization of the Company Predecessor. We may be liable for indemnification or similar payments relating to the Company Predecessor. Under its constitutive documents, other agreements or applicable law, the Company Predecessor had obligations to defend, indemnify, reimburse, exculpate, advance fees and expenses, or limit the liabilities of certain officers and employees for certain matters relating to the Company Predecessor (the “Predecessor Indemnification Obligations”). Under the Plan and the Confirmation Order, we retained Predecessor Indemnification Obligations to those officers and employees who were officers and employees both prior to and after the effective date of the Plan. We may, therefore, face liabilities with respect to such Predecessor Indemnification Obligations. In addition, we may face liabilities arising from a separate agreement providing for Predecessor Indemnification Obligations to a former officer. Currently, certain claims remain outstanding against several of our former officers and employees in litigation brought on behalf of the Litigation Trust, which could trigger our Predecessor Indemnification Obligations, and new claims may arise in the future against those we have agreed to indemnify. While we believe the likelihood that we will be required to fund any material Predecessor Indemnification Obligations is remote and we are unable to quantify the potential exposure for which we may have to provide indemnification in the future, to the extent that we are required to fund any Predecessor Indemnification Obligations, our results of operations and our liquidity and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to ESH REIT and its Status as a REIT Failure of ESH REIT to qualify as a REIT or remain qualified as a REIT would cause it to be taxed as a regular C corporation, which would expose it to substantial tax liability and substantially reduce the amount of cash available to pay distributions to its shareholders. ESH REIT elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes effective as of October 7, 2010. We believe ESH REIT has been organized and operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a REIT and ESH REIT currently intends to continue to operate as a REIT. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. The complexity of these provisions is greater in the case of a REIT that owns hotels and leases them to a corporation with which a portion of its stock is paired. As a result, ESH REIT is likely to encounter a greater number of interpretive issues under the REIT qualification rules, and more such issues which lack clear guidance, than are other REITs. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize ESH REIT’s REIT qualification. In connection with the Offering and the August 2014 secondary offering, the Company received an opinion that ESH REIT should have qualified as a REIT as of that time. We believe ESH REIT has continued to operate in conformity with the requirements to qualify as a REIT since the date of the August 2014 secondary offering and that ESH REIT continues to satisfy all requirements to maintain its REIT status. One of the requirements unique to our structure is that, in order for ESH REIT to qualify as a REIT, no shareholder may actually or constructively own 10 percent or more of the value of shares of ESH REIT or the Corporation. While we do not regularly monitor share ownership for purposes of this test, in the event that a shareholder crosses the 10-percent threshold, we believe that the excess share provisions of the ESH REIT and Corporation charters should be triggered to reduce the relevant shareholder’s ownership and insulate the Company from risk with respect to this issue. If ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and no available relief provision applied, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to holders of its stock would not be deductible by it in computing its taxable income. ESH REIT may also be subject to additional state and local taxes if it fails to 23 Table of Contents qualify as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for investment, debt service and distribution to holders of its stock, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value and market price of our Paired Shares. To the extent that distributions to shareholders by ESH REIT have been made on the belief that ESH REIT qualified as a REIT, ESH REIT might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of its investments to pay the applicable tax. If, for any reason, ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be subject to a material tax liability and unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify, which would materially adversely affect our business and operating strategies and the market value of our Paired Shares. Failure to qualify as a REIT could result from a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the leases of ESH REIT’s hotels to the Corporation are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes; • rents received from the Corporation are treated as rents received from a “related party tenant”; • ESH REIT is not respected as an entity separate from the Corporation or the REIT qualification tests are applied to ESH REIT on a combined basis with the Corporation; or • failure to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements due to restrictions under ESH REIT’s indebtedness. In addition, if ESH REIT fails to qualify as a REIT, it will no longer be required to make distributions as a condition to REIT qualification and all of its distributions to holders of its common stock, after payment of corporate level tax as noted above, would be taxable as regular C corporation dividends to the extent of ESH REIT’s current and accumulated earnings and profits. Thus, if ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT, dividends paid to ESH REIT’s shareholders currently taxed as individuals would be qualified dividend income, currently taxed at preferential rates, and ESH REIT’s shareholders currently taxed as corporations (including the Corporation) would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the Code. As a result of all these factors, ESH REIT’s failure to qualify as a REIT would impair our business and operating strategies and materially adversely affect the market price of our Paired Shares. If rents received by ESH REIT from the Corporation are treated as rent received from a “related party tenant,” ESH REIT will fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs, ESH REIT must not own, actually or constructively (by virtue of certain attribution provisions of the Code), 10% or more (by vote or value) of the stock of any corporate lessee or 10% or more of the assets or net profits of any non-corporate lessee (a “related party tenant”). The Corporation will be treated as a related party tenant for purposes of the gross income tests if ESH REIT owns, actually or constructively (by virtue of certain attribution provisions of the Code), 10% or more of the stock (by vote or value) of the Corporation. The Corporation does not believe that it is a related party tenant of ESH REIT. However, events beyond our knowledge or control could result in a shareholder, including an investor in the Sponsors or the Sponsors’ funds, owning or being deemed to own 10% or more of the paired common stock. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of the 10% threshold are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, for instance, the acquisition of less than 10% of the outstanding paired common stock (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity which owns paired common stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to be treated as owning in excess of 10% of ESH REIT. In addition, a person may be treated as owning 10% or more of the value of stock of ESH REIT by virtue of owning an interest in an entity other than a Sponsor-managed fund that owns an interest in ESH REIT. Although ESH REIT intends to make timely annual demands of certain shareholders of record to disclose the beneficial owners of 24 Table of Contents Shares issued in their name, as required by the Treasury Regulations, monitoring actual or constructive ownership of the Shares, including by investors in the Sponsors, on a continuous basis is not feasible. The charters of the Corporation and ESH REIT contain restrictions on the amount of shares of stock of either entity so that no person can own, actually or constructively (by virtue of certain attribution provisions of the Code), more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock of either ESH REIT or the Corporation. The Class A common stock of ESH REIT and the 125 shares of preferred stock of ESH REIT are not subject to the 9.8% ownership limitation under the charter of ESH REIT. However, given the breadth of the Code’s constructive ownership rules and the fact that it is not feasible for ESH REIT and the Corporation to continuously monitor actual and constructive ownership of paired common stock, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in preventing any person from actually or constructively acquiring 9.8% or more of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation or ESH REIT. If the Corporation were treated as a “related party tenant” of ESH REIT, ESH REIT would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and would fail to qualify for REIT status. If ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be subject to a material tax liability and unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify. In addition, it is unlikely ESH REIT would avail itself of certain relief provisions under the Code customarily available to a REIT that has failed to satisfy a REIT requirement but wants to retain its REIT status. If a REIT fails to satisfy either of the two gross income requirements, such relief provisions require payment of a punitive tax in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated profits of the REIT attributable to the amount of gross income by which the REIT failed the gross income tests. Since substantially all of ESH REIT’s gross income is generated by rent paid pursuant to the operating leases with the Corporation, substantially all of ESH REIT’s total profits could become subject to such 100% tax under such relief provisions of the Code if this rent failed to qualify under the two gross income tests. In that event, ESH REIT would not likely pursue any of the relief provisions available to REITs under certain provisions of the Code. Our structure has been infrequently utilized by public companies and has not been employed by a public company since a similar structure was employed by a public company in 2006, and the IRS could challenge ESH REIT’s qualification as a REIT. Our structure has been infrequently utilized by public companies and has not been employed by a public company since a similar structure was employed by a public company in 2006, and there is little guidance on the tax treatment of a paired share arrangement. Section 269B of the Code provides that the determination of whether an entity qualifies as a REIT must be made on a combined basis if the entity is “stapled” to another entity. ESH REIT and the Corporation will be considered “stapled entities” if more than 50% of the value of the beneficial ownership of shares of ESH REIT is paired with the shares of the Corporation. We believe that the value of the Class B common stock does not represent more than 50% of the value of all of the shares of stock of ESH REIT and, accordingly, that ESH REIT and the Corporation are not “stapled entities” for purposes of Section 269B of the Code. If ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT under this rule and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be subject to a material tax liability and unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify. Additionally, the IRS could challenge the REIT status of ESH REIT on the basis that the Class B common stock is not freely transferrable. Such assertion, if successful, would result in the loss of ESH REIT’s REIT status. If ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT under this rule and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be subject to a material tax liability and unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify. Finally, the IRS could also assert that the Corporation should be treated as owning all of the common stock of ESH REIT. If upheld, such an assertion would effectively eliminate the benefit of REIT status for ESH REIT. We did not seek an advance ruling from the IRS regarding ESH REIT’s qualification as a REIT. The ownership limits that apply to REITs, as prescribed by the Code and by ESH REIT’s charter, may inhibit market activity in our Paired Shares and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for ESH REIT to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of its stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code to include certain entities, at any time during the last half of each taxable year after the first year for which 25 Table of Contents it elected to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. Subject to certain exceptions, ESH REIT’s charter authorizes its Board of Directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve its qualification to be taxed as a REIT. ESH REIT’s charter also provides that, unless exempted by the Board of Directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of its stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively (by virtue of certain attribution provisions of the Code) by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for our Paired Shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. If ESH REIT’s leases with the Corporation are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, ESH REIT would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, ESH REIT is required to satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the operating leases with the Corporation, which generates substantially all of ESH REIT’s gross income, to constitute qualifying rental income for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. ESH REIT has structured the leases, and intends to structure any future leases, so that the leases will be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this treatment or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the leases were not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, ESH REIT would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and would fail to qualify for REIT status. If ESH REIT failed to qualify as a REIT and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be subject to a material tax liability and unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify. If rents received by ESH REIT from the Corporation do not reflect arm’s-length terms, the IRS could seek to recharacterize the rents. The rates of rent payable by the Corporation to ESH REIT under the operating leases are intended to reflect arm’s-length terms. However, transfer pricing is an inherently subjective matter, and the IRS could, under Section 482 of the Code, assert that the rates of rent between the Corporation and ESH REIT do not reflect arm’s-length terms. If the IRS was successful in asserting that the rates of rent were not on arm’s-length terms, it could adversely impact our REIT qualification, our effective tax rate and our income tax liability. Our principal Operating Lessee was recently subject to an audit by the Internal Revenue Service. In February 2014, we received notice that the Company’s principal Operating Lessee would be subject to an audit by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) with respect to its 2011 taxable year, during which it was a taxable REIT subsidiary of ESH REIT. In November 2014, the IRS completed this audit and issued a no change letter. Despite this favorable outcome, the IRS may choose to audit the 2012 or 2013 taxable year for this Operating Lessee, or audit other open years for other taxpayers. The IRS has conducted audits of other lodging REITs and their taxable REIT subsidiaries, and in at least three cases has focused on the transfer pricing aspects of the hotel leases between the REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries. In two of those cases, the IRS found the terms of the leases not to be on arm’s-length terms and proposed adjustments in connection with the audits. While we believe that our rent provisions reflect arm’s-length terms, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree in any potential audit. ESH REIT has a limited operating history as a publicly traded REIT and may not be successful in operating as a publicly traded REIT, which may adversely affect its ability to make distributions to its shareholders. ESH REIT has a limited operating history as a publicly traded REIT. The REIT rules and regulations are highly technical and complex. ESH REIT cannot assure you that its management team’s past experience will be 26 Table of Contents sufficient to successfully operate ESH REIT as a publicly traded REIT, implement appropriate operating and investment policies and comply with Code or Treasury Regulations that are applicable to it. Failure to comply with the income, asset and other requirements imposed by the REIT rules and regulations could prevent ESH REIT from qualifying as a REIT and could force it to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which may adversely affect its ability to make distributions to its shareholders. Even if ESH REIT continues to qualify as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that could reduce our cash flows. Even if ESH REIT continues to qualify for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets including, but not limited to, taxes on any undistributed income and property and transfer taxes. In order to maintain its status as a REIT, each year ESH REIT must distribute to holders of its common stock at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined before the deductions for distributions paid and excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that ESH REIT satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income and net capital gain, it will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, ESH REIT will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it pays out to holders of its common stock in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. ESH REIT intends to distribute at least 95% of its taxable income and net capital gain. Thus, ESH REIT will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain and may be subject to U.S. federal excise tax. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to holders of its common stock, and lower cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of our Paired Shares. The REIT distribution requirements could materially adversely affect ESH REIT’s liquidity and may force ESH REIT to borrow funds or sell assets during unfavorable market conditions or make taxable distributions of its capital stock. In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, ESH REIT may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis or sell assets, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings or asset sales. ESH REIT’s cash flows may be insufficient to fund required REIT distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt service obligations or amortization payments. The insufficiency of ESH REIT’s cash flows to cover its distribution requirements could have a material adverse effect on its ability to incur additional indebtedness or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain its qualification as a REIT. ESH REIT may from time to time make distributions to its shareholders in the form of its taxable stock dividends, which could result in shareholders incurring tax liability without receiving sufficient cash to pay such tax. Although it has no current intention to do so, ESH REIT may in the future distribute taxable stock dividends to its shareholders in the form of additional shares of its stock. ESH REIT might distribute additional shares of its Class A common stock, shares of Class B common stock and/or shares of its preferred stock to the Corporation and/or shares of its Class B common stock to the holders of its Class B common stock. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of ESH REIT’s current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash distributions received. If a U.S. shareholder sells ESH REIT common or preferred shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our Paired Shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, ESH REIT may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in its common stock. 27 Table of Contents Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Certain dividends known as qualified dividends payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts or estates currently are subject to the same tax rates as long-term capital gains, which are significantly lower than the maximum rates for ordinary income. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for such reduced rates. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs and our Paired Shares. Applicable REIT laws may restrict certain business activities and increase our overall tax liability. As a REIT, ESH REIT is subject to various restrictions on the types of income it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. Business activities that could be impacted by applicable REIT laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of hotel properties. Due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, through the Corporation. The Corporation is taxable as a regular C corporation and is subject to U.S. federal, state, local and, if applicable, foreign taxation on its taxable income. To qualify as a REIT, ESH REIT must satisfy certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on an ongoing basis. In order to meet these tests, ESH REIT may be required to forego investments it might otherwise make. Thus, ESH REIT’s compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our business and operating strategies, financial condition and results of operations. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit ESH REIT’s ability to hedge its assets and liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction that ESH REIT enters into primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations or to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that ESH REIT enters into other types of hedging transactions or fails to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, ESH REIT may be required to limit its use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of ESH REIT’s hedging activities because its TRS may be subject to tax on gains or expose ESH REIT to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than it would otherwise choose to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the TRS. The application of FIRPTA to non-U.S. holders of Class B common stock of ESH REIT is not clear. A non-U.S. person disposing of a U.S. real property interest (“USRPI”), including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of USRPIs, is generally subject to tax under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act (“FIRPTA”), on the gain recognized on the disposition, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gain. FIRPTA does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT.” We intend to take the position that ESH REIT is a domestically controlled REIT under the Code. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this treatment or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If ESH REIT were to fail to qualify as a “domestically controlled REIT,” gains realized by a non-U.S. holder on a sale of Class B common stock would be subject to tax under FIRPTA unless the Class B common stock was regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the NYSE) and the non-U.S. holder did not at any time during a specified 28 Table of Contents testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of the outstanding Class B common stock. While there is no authority addressing whether a component of a paired interest will be considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market by virtue of the paired interest being considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market, we intend to take the position that the Class B common stock of ESH REIT is traded on an established securities market. Non-U.S. holders of Class B common stock of ESH REIT may be subject to tax under FIRPTA on distributions. Non-U.S. holders of Class B common stock may incur tax on distributions that are attributable to gain from a sale or exchange of a USRPI by ESH REIT under FIRPTA. A USRPI includes certain interests in real property and stock in corporations at least 50% of whose assets consist of USRPIs. Under FIRPTA, a non-U.S. shareholder is taxed on distributions attributable to gain from sales of USRPIs as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business of the non-U.S. shareholder, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gains. A non-U.S. shareholder thus would be taxed on such a distribution at the normal capital gains rates applicable to U.S. shareholders, subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of a nonresident alien individual. A non-U.S. corporate shareholder not entitled to treaty relief or exemption also may be subject to the 30% branch profits tax on such a distribution. If the Class B common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States, capital gain distributions on the Class B common stock that are attributable to ESH REIT’s sale of real property will be treated as ordinary dividends rather than as gain from the sale of a USRPI as long as the non-U.S. shareholder did not own more than 5% of the Class B common stock at any time during the one-year period preceding the distribution. As a result, non-U.S. shareholders generally will be subject to withholding tax on such capital gain distributions in the same manner as they are subject to withholding tax on ordinary dividends. As noted above, we intend to take the position that the Class B common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States. If the Class B common stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States or the non-U.S. shareholder owned more than 5% of the Class B common stock at any time during the one-year period preceding the distribution, capital gain distributions that are attributable to ESH REIT’s sale of real property would be subject to tax under FIRPTA, as described in the preceding paragraph. In such case, ESH REIT must withhold 35% of any distribution that ESH REIT could designate as a capital gain dividend. A non-U.S. shareholder may receive a credit against its tax liability for the amount ESH REIT withholds. Moreover, if a non-U.S. shareholder disposes of ESH REIT common stock during the 30-day period preceding a distribution payment, and such non-U.S. shareholder (or a person related to such non-U.S. shareholder) acquires or enters into a contract or option to acquire the Class B common stock within 61 days of the first day of the 30-day period described above, and any portion of such distribution payment would, but for the disposition, be treated as a USRPI capital gain to such non-U.S. shareholder, then such non-U.S. shareholder shall be treated as having USRPI capital gain in an amount that, but for the disposition, would have been treated as USRPI capital gain. Risks Related to the Corporation The Corporation is subject to tax at regular corporate rates. The Corporation is subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to holders of Corporation common stock are not deductible by it in computing its taxable income. In calculating its taxable income, the Corporation must include as income any distributions received from ESH REIT. Distributions to holders of Corporation common stock are taxable as dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits. Distributions paid by the Corporation to noncorporate U.S. shareholders that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the shareholder at the preferential rates applicable to long-term capital gains provided the shareholder meets certain holding period requirements. Distributions in excess of the Corporation’s current and accumulated earnings and 29 Table of Contents profits would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in their shares. If distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock. The application of FIRPTA could adversely affect non-U.S. holders of our Paired Shares. The Corporation is expected to be a United States real property holding corporation under the Code. As a result, under FIRPTA, certain non-U.S. holders of Corporation common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain from the disposition of such stock, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gain. Whether these FIRPTA provisions apply depends on the amount of Corporation common stock that such non-U.S. holder holds and whether, at the time they dispose of their shares, Corporation common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market (such as the NYSE) within the meaning of the applicable Treasury Regulations. While there is no authority addressing whether a component of a paired interest will be considered to be traded on an established securities market by virtue of the paired interest being considered to be traded on an established securities market, we intend to take the position that the common stock of the Corporation is traded on an established securities market. So long as the Corporation common stock is regularly traded as noted above, only a non-U.S. holder who has held, actually or constructively, more than 5% of the Corporation’s common stock at any time during the applicable testing period may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of such common stock under FIRPTA. In addition, a separate valuation of the Class B common stock of ESH REIT and common stock of the Corporation may not be available. As a result, the portion of any gain on the disposition of a Paired Share that is attributable to shares of common stock of the Corporation, and subject to FIRPTA, may be difficult to determine. If ESH REIT was to lose its REIT status, it could materially adversely affect the Corporation, and therefore materially adversely affect the Company. The Corporation will receive a substantial portion of its income in the form of distributions from ESH REIT. If ESH REIT was not treated as a REIT, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to holders of its stock, including the Corporation, would not be deductible by it in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of its stock, including the Corporation, and would likely reduce the value of the ESH REIT Class A common stock held by the Corporation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Corporation’s common stock and our Paired Shares. See “—Risks Related to ESH REIT and its Status as a REIT.” Risks Related to our Paired Shares If our stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our Paired Shares may be influenced by many factors including: • announcements of new hotels or services or significant price reductions by us or our competitors; • changes in tax law or interpretations thereof; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our Paired Shares or changes in analysts’ financial estimates; • variations in quarterly results of operations compared to market expectations; • default on our indebtedness or foreclosure of our hotel properties; • economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; • increased competition; • future sales of our Paired Shares or the perception that such sales may occur; 30 Table of Contents • investor perceptions of us and the lodging industry; • events beyond our control, such as war, terrorist attacks, travel-related health concerns, transportation and fuel prices, travel-related accidents, natural disasters and severe weather; and • the other factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section. As a result of these factors, investors in Paired Shares may not be able to resell their Paired Shares at or above their purchase price. In addition, our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. Accordingly, these broad market and industry factors may significantly reduce the market price of our Paired Shares, regardless of our operating performance. Certain of our shareholders each beneficially own a substantial amount of our Paired Shares and have substantial control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a shareholder. Affiliates of the Sponsors each beneficially own approximately 23.3% of our Paired Shares, with no individual entity owning, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% as provided in the respective charters of the Corporation and ESH REIT. Accordingly, the Corporation is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules. ESH REIT is a “controlled company” by virtue of its ownership by the Corporation, regardless of the Sponsors’ ownership. In addition, four directors of the Corporation and three directors of ESH REIT were designated by the Sponsors pursuant to the shareholders agreement between the Corporation, ESH REIT and the Sponsors. Further, the Sponsors are entitled to consent rights on specified matters pursuant to the shareholders agreement. As a result, the Sponsors are able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other significant business or corporate transactions. These shareholders may have interests that are different from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could cause the market price of our Paired Shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their Paired Shares. Additionally, each of the Sponsors is in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold, and in a few instances have acquired and held, interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. The Corporation’s and ESH REIT’s charters provide that none of the Sponsors, any of their affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our Paired Shares may depress the price of our Paired Shares. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our Paired Shares in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Paired Shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. The charters of the Corporation and ESH REIT authorize us to issue 3,500,000,000 Paired Shares, of which 204,517,625 Paired Shares are outstanding as of February 20, 2015. Of these shares, the 32,487,500 Paired Shares sold in the Offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act by persons other than “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, another 24,150,000 Paired Shares were sold into the public market as a result of a secondary offering that was completed in 31 Table of Contents August 2014 by the Sponsors. The Sponsors currently own 142,943,912 Paired Shares collectively and have additional registration rights with respect to the remainder of their Paired Shares. We may issue Paired Shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of Paired Shares, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those Paired Shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We have also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 covering 8,000,000 Paired Shares in connection with our employee benefit plans. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Paired Shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our Paired Shares will have on the market price of our Paired Shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our Paired Shares (including Paired Shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Paired Shares. Under our equity incentive plans, the granting entity will need to compensate the non-granting entity for the issuance of its component share of our Paired Shares. The Extended Stay America, Inc. 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the ESH Hospitality, Inc. 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan (each a “2013 LTIP”) contemplate grants of Paired Shares to employees, officers and directors of the Corporation and ESH REIT (each a “Granting Entity”), as applicable. Each Granting Entity makes awards to eligible participants under its respective 2013 LTIP in respect of Paired Shares, subject to the non-Granting Entity’s approval of the terms of each award made under the Granting Entity’s 2013 LTIP, and the non-Granting Entity’s agreement to issue its component of our Paired Share (i.e., with respect to the Corporation, a share of common stock, and with respect to ESH REIT, a share of Class B common stock) to the grantee at the time of delivery of its component of our Paired Share. The Granting Entity will compensate the non-Granting Entity generally in cash for its issuance of its component of our Paired Share for the fair market value at the time of issuance. In some cases, the applicable Granting Entity may have to pay more for a share of the non-Granting Entity than it would have otherwise paid at the time of grant as the result of an increase in the value of a Paired Share between the time of grant and the time of exercise or settlement. In addition, the Corporation may need to acquire additional shares of Class A common stock of ESH REIT at the time of issuance of the shares of Class B common stock of ESH REIT in order to maintain its 55% ownership interest in ESH REIT. Under the 2013 LTIPs, a grant of restricted stock units results in the recognition of total compensation expense equal to the grant date fair value of such grant. Compensation expense related to a grant is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of each grant. As it relates to the Company’s financial statements, with respect to grants issued to directors of ESH REIT, such compensation expense is recognized on a mark-to-market basis each period rather than on a straight-line basis. If our operating and financial performance in any given period does not meet the guidance that we provide to the public, our stock price may decline. We provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Any such guidance will be comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this combined annual report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings and statements. Our actual results may not always be in line with or exceed any guidance we have provided, especially in times of economic uncertainty. If, in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet any guidance we provide or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, as we have in the past, the market price of our Paired Shares may decline. 32 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about Extended Stay America, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us, or our industry, or downgrade our Paired Shares, the price of our Paired Shares could decline. The trading market for our Paired Shares depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about Extended Stay America and the lodging industry. One or more analysts could downgrade, and in the past have downgraded, our Paired Shares or issue other negative commentary about Extended Stay America or our industry. In addition, we may be unable or slow to maintain and attract additional research coverage. Alternatively, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of Extended Stay America, we could lose visibility in the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our Paired Shares could decline. Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to receive a premium for their Paired Shares. The Corporation and ESH REIT are Delaware corporations, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In addition, provisions of the Corporation’s and ESH REIT’s charters and bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our Boards of Directors. These provisions include, among others: • the ability of our Boards of Directors to designate one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval; • actions by shareholders may not be taken by written consent, except that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders may be effected by written consent until such time as the Sponsors cease to own 50% or more of the outstanding Paired Shares; • the sole power of a majority of the Boards of Directors to fix the number of directors; • advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings, provided that such notice will not be applicable to the Sponsors so long as they own at least 50% of the outstanding Paired Shares; and • the limited ability of shareholders to call special meetings while the Sponsors own at least 50% of the outstanding Paired Shares; • the affirmative supermajority vote of our shareholders to amend anti-takeover provisions in our charters and bylaws. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant ownership of Paired Shares by the Sponsors, and certain covenant restrictions under our indebtedness could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our Paired Shares, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our Paired Shares. The Corporation and ESH REIT may each issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our Paired Shares, which could depress the price of our Paired Shares. The Corporation has 21,202 shares of 8.0% voting preferred stock outstanding. ESH REIT has 125 shares of 12.5% preferred stock outstanding. The Corporation’s charter authorizes the Corporation to issue up to 350,000,000 shares of one or more additional series of preferred stock. ESH REIT’s charter authorizes ESH REIT to issue up to 350,000,000 shares of one or more additional series of preferred stock. The Boards of Directors of the Corporation and ESH REIT will have the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by shareholders. Preferred stock could be issued 33 Table of Contents with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our Paired Shares. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our Paired Shares at a premium over the market price and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Paired Shares. ESH REIT may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could adversely affect the market price of our Paired Shares. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. ESH REIT, the Corporation and holders of Class B common stock could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, which could effectively eliminate our structure, and in turn, adversely affect the market price of our Paired Shares. There is a possibility that there will be amendments to or elimination of the pairing arrangement, which may, in turn, impact ESH REIT’s status as a REIT. Each share of common stock of the Corporation is attached to and trades together with the Class B common stock of ESH REIT. Under the Corporation’s and ESH REIT’s charters, each of the respective Board of Directors may modify or eliminate this pairing arrangement without the consent of its respective shareholders at any time if that Board of Directors no longer deems it in the best interests of the Corporation or ESH REIT, as the case may be, for their shares to continue to be attached and trade together. At this time, neither board has determined the circumstances under which the pairing arrangement would be terminated. However, circumstances that the respective board might consider in making such a determination may include, for example, the enactment of legislation that would significantly reduce or eliminate the benefits of our current structure. With respect to such determination, the respective board must fulfill at all times its respective fiduciary duties and, therefore, it is not possible to predict at this time the future circumstances under which the respective board would terminate the pairing arrangement. In addition, holders of Paired Shares have the option, by the vote of a majority of our Paired Shares then outstanding, to eliminate the pairing arrangement in accordance with the respective charters of the Corporation and ESH REIT. The pairing arrangement will be automatically terminated upon bankruptcy of either of the Corporation or ESH REIT. The Corporation and ESH REIT each have the right, at their option and without the consent of the holders of our Paired Shares, to acquire shares of Class B common stock of ESH REIT from the holders of such shares in exchange for cash, securities of the Corporation or ESH REIT, as the case may be, and/or any other property with a fair market value, as determined by a valuation firm or investment bank, at least equal to the fair market value of the Class B common stock of ESH REIT being exchanged. The Corporation and ESH REIT each have the right, at their option and without the consent of the holders of our Paired Shares, to acquire shares of the Corporation’s common stock from the holders of such shares in exchange for cash, securities of the Corporation or ESH REIT, as the case may be, and/or any other property with a fair market value, as determined by a valuation firm or investment bank, at least equal to the fair market value of the Corporation’s common stock being exchanged. Holders of our Paired Shares could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the exchange of shares of Class B common stock of ESH REIT or shares of common stock of the Corporation and may not receive cash to pay the tax from the Corporation or ESH REIT. After any such acquisition, shares of the Corporation’s common stock may be paired with shares of Class B common stock of ESH REIT in a different proportion, but such shares will continue to be attached and trade together. Further, the Corporation’s charter and ESH REIT’s charter allow the respective Boards of Directors of the Corporation and ESH REIT to, in their sole discretion, issue unpaired shares of their capital stock. Trading in 34 Table of Contents unpaired shares of the Corporation or ESH REIT may reduce the liquidity or value of our Paired Shares. The Class A common stock of ESH REIT owned by the Corporation is also freely transferable and if transferred, the transferee will hold unpaired shares of common stock of ESH REIT. ESH REIT’s Board of Directors could terminate its status as a REIT, subjecting ESH REIT’s taxable income to U.S. federal income taxation, which would increase its liabilities for taxes. Under ESH REIT’s charter, its Board of Directors may terminate its REIT status, without the consent of its shareholders, at any time if the board no longer deems it in the best interests of ESH REIT to continue to qualify under the Code as a REIT, subject to the Sponsors’ consent rights pursuant to the shareholders agreement between the Corporation, ESH REIT and the Sponsors. ESH REIT’s Board of Directors has not yet determined the circumstances under which ESH REIT’s status as a REIT would be terminated. However, circumstances that the board may consider in making such a determination may include, for example: • the enactment of new legislation that would significantly reduce or eliminate the benefits of being a REIT or having a paired share arrangement; or • ESH REIT no longer being able to satisfy the REIT requirements. With respect to this determination, ESH REIT’s board must fulfill at all times its fiduciary duties and, therefore, it is not possible to predict at this time the future circumstances under which the board would terminate ESH REIT’s status as a REIT. If ESH REIT’s status as a REIT is terminated, its taxable income will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) at regular corporate rates. If ESH REIT’s status was terminated and it was not entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, it would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to so qualify. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the NYSE, may strain our resources, increase our costs and divert management’s attention, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the corporate governance standards of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the NYSE. These requirements place a strain on our management, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires us to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition within specified time periods and to prepare proxy statements with respect to the annual meetings of shareholders of the Corporation and ESH REIT. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. The NYSE requires that we comply with various corporate governance requirements. To comply with the Exchange Act, Sarbanes-Oxley Act and NYSE requirements, significant resources and management oversight are required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and lead to significant costs associated with compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our Paired Shares. Advocacy efforts by shareholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of these costs. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. We are required to provide reliable financial statements and reports to our shareholders. To monitor the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, we have established an internal audit function that 35 Table of Contents oversees our internal controls. In addition, we have developed policies and procedures with respect to company-wide business processes and cycles in order to implement effective internal control over financial reporting. We have established controls and procedures designed to ensure that total hotel revenues and hotel operating expenses are properly recorded at our hotels. While we have undertaken substantial work to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining effective internal control over our financial reporting and may determine in the future that our existing internal controls need improvement. If we fail to comply with proper overall controls, we could be materially harmed or fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal controls could result in errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a substantial decline in the market price of our Paired Shares. In connection with the preparation of the 2014 consolidated financial statements of Extended Stay America, Inc., we identified a significant deficiency. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. A company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including: • the requirement that a majority of the Boards of Directors of the Corporation and ESH REIT consist of independent directors; • the requirement that each of the Corporation and ESH REIT have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement that each of the Corporation and ESH REIT have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We rely on all of the exemptions listed above. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 