D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report in evaluating an investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 3 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Charter rates for liquefied gas carriers are cyclical in nature. The international liquefied gas carrier market is cyclical with attendant volatility in terms of profitability, charter rates and vessel values. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of liquefied gas carriers has varied widely. Because many factors influencing the supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity are unpredictable, the timing, direction and degree of changes in the international liquefied gas carrier market are also unpredictable. Future growth in the demand for our services will depend on changes in supply and demand, economic growth in the world economy and demand for liquefied gas product transportation relative to changes in worldwide fleet capacity. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments, including the return of the turmoil in the global financial system and economic crisis, could have a material adverse effect on world economic growth and thus on our business and results of operations. The charter rates we receive will be dependent upon, among other things: • changes in the supply of vessel capacity for the seaborne transportation of liquefied gases, which is influenced by the following factors: • the number of newbuilding deliveries and the ability of shipyards to deliver newbuildings by contracted delivery dates and capacity levels of shipyards; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • port and canal congestion; and • the number of vessels that are out of service, including due to vessel casualties, repairs and drydockings. • changes in the level of demand for seaborne transportation of liquefied gases, which is influenced by the following factors: • the level of production of liquefied gases in net export regions such as Russia, North America, the Middle East and Africa; • the level of demand for liquefied gases in net import regions such as Asia, Europe, Latin America and India; • the level of internal demand for petrochemicals to supply integrated petrochemical facilities in net export regions; • a reduction in global or general industrial activity specifically in the plastics and chemical industry; • the prices of alternative fuels; • changes in the cost of petroleum and natural gas from which liquefied gases are derived; • prevailing global and regional economic conditions; • political changes and armed conflicts in the regions traveled by our vessels and the regions where the cargoes we carry are produced or consumed that interrupt production, trade routes or consumption of liquefied gases and the products made therefrom; • developments in international trade; • the distances between exporting and importing regions over which liquefied gases are to be moved by sea; • infrastructure to support seaborne liquefied gases, including pipelines, railways and terminals; 4 Table of Contents • the availability of alternative transportation means; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; • changes in liquefied gas carrier prices; and • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the production or consumption of liquefied gases or the useful lives of vessels. Adverse changes in any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, liquidity, cash flow and financial position. We are partially dependent on voyage charters in the spot market, and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings. We currently own and operate a fleet of 30 vessels. Of those, 12 vessels are employed in the spot market, exposing us to fluctuations in spot market charter rates. We may employ additional vessels that we may charter-in or acquire in the future in the spot market, including the eight newbuildings we expect will be delivered to us by July 2017. Although spot chartering is common in our industry, the spot market may fluctuate significantly. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive spot market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling in ballast and to pick up cargo. If future spot charter rates decline, we may be unable to operate our vessels trading in the spot market profitably or meet our obligations, including payments on indebtedness. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage which may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. We may be unable to charter our vessels at attractive rates, which would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Payments under our charters represent substantially all of our operating cash flow. Our time charters expire on a regular basis. Furthermore, we anticipate receiving at least eight newbuildings by July 2017 as a result of our acquisition of the newbuildings, of which four are not currently subject to charters. If demand for liquefied gas carriers has declined at the time that our charters expire or vessels are received, we may not be able to charter our vessels at favorable rates or at all. If more vessels are added to the overall fleet through newbuilding programmes, charter rates may reduce. In addition, while longer-term charters would become more attractive to us at a time when charter rates are declining, our customers may not want to enter into longer-term charters in such an environment. As a result, if our charters expire or vessels are received at a time when charter rates are declining, we may have to accept charters with lower rates or shorter terms than would be desirable. Furthermore, we may be unable to charter our vessels immediately after the expiration of their charters or after their receipt, resulting in periods of non-utilization for our vessels. Our inability to charter our vessels at favorable rates or terms or at all would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Please read “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Our Fleet.” If the demand for liquefied gases and the seaborne transportation of liquefied gases does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for liquefied gases and the seaborne transportation of liquefied gases, each of which could be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as: • increases in the demand for industrial and residential natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to producing areas, or the conversion of existing non-gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; 5 Table of Contents • increases in demand for chemical feedstock’s in net exporting regions; • decreases in the consumption of petrochemical gases; • decreases in the consumption of liquefied petroleum gas, or “LPG,” due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of liquefied gas less attractive; • the availability of competing, alternative energy sources, transportation fuels or propulsion systems; • decreases in demand for liquefied gases resulting from changes in feedstock capabilities of petrochemical plants in net importing regions; • changes in the relative values of hydrocarbon and liquefied gases; • a reduction in global industrial activity, especially in the plastics and petrochemical industries, particularly in regions with high demand growth for liquefied gas, such as Asia; • adverse global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in liquefied gas exporting or importing regions, which could reduce liquefied gas shipping or energy consumption; • changes in governmental regulations, such as the elimination of economic incentives or initiatives designed to encourage the use of liquefied gases over other fuel sources; or • decreases in the capacity of petrochemical plants and crude oil refineries worldwide or the failure of anticipated new capacity to come online. Reduced demand for liquefied gases and the seaborne transportation of liquefied gases would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The expected growth in the supply of petrochemical gases, including ethane and ethylene, available for seaborne transport may not materialize, which would deprive us of the opportunity to obtain premium charters for petrochemical cargoes. Charter rates for petrochemical gas cargoes are often higher than those for LPG, with charter rates for ethylene historically commanding an additional premium. While we believe that growth in production at petrochemical production facilities and regional supply and pricing imbalances will create opportunities for us to transport petrochemical gas cargoes, including ethane and ethylene, factors that are beyond our control may cause the supply of petrochemical gases available for seaborne transport to remain constant or even decline. For example, a significant portion of any increased production of petrochemicals in export regions may be used to supply local facilities that use petrochemicals as a feedstock rather than exported via seaborne trade. If the supply of petrochemical gases available for seaborne transport does not increase, we will not have the opportunity to obtain the premium charter rates associated with petrochemical gas cargoes, including ethane and ethylene, and our expectations regarding the growth of our business may not be met. The market values of our vessels may fluctuate significantly. This could cause us to incur a loss, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The market value of liquefied gas carriers fluctuates. While the market values of our vessels have increased since the recent economic slowdown, they still remain below the historic high levels prior to the economic slowdown. In addition, they are subject to the potential significant fluctuations depending on a number of factors including, among other things: general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, shipyard capacity and the cost of newbuildings, prevailing charter rates, competition from other shipping companies, other modes of transportation, other types, sizes and age of vessels and applicable governmental regulations. In addition, when vessel prices are considered to be low, companies not usually involved in shipping may make speculative vessel orders, thereby increasing the supply of vessel capacity, satisfying demand sooner and potentially suppressing charter rates. 6 Table of Contents Also, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore each of our loan agreements and bond agreement have covenants relating to asset values, whereby if vessel values were to reduce to below those set out in the covenants, a breach would occur and cause the loan amounts to be immediately repayable. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Over the long term, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to preserve the operating capacity of, and to grow, our fleet. We must make substantial capital expenditures over the long term to maintain the operating capacity and expansion of our fleet in order to preserve our capital base. We estimate that drydocking expenditures can cost up to $2.0 million per vessel per drydocking, although these expenditures could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year and could increase as a result of changes in: • the location and required repositioning of the vessel; • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • the size of our fleet; • the cost of replacement vessels; • the length of charters; • the age of our fleet; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. Furthermore, we intend to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. Following the delivery of the newbuilding Navigator Ceto in January 2016, we have eight newbuildings, expected to be delivered by July 2017, for an aggregate of $509.2 million, comprised of one 22,000 cbm 2016 newbuilding from Jiangnan Shipyard, China for $43.9 million, three 2016 and one 2017 35,000 cbm newbuildings from Jiangnan for an average of $78.2 million per vessel, two 22,000 cbm 2017 newbuildings from HMD for $51.0 million per vessel and one 38,000 cbm 2017 newbuilding from HMD for $50.5 million. We have fully financed the construction of Navigator Ceto and the 22,000 cbm and 35,000 cbm 2016 and 2017 newbuildings with debt financing. We plan to use cash on hand, together with future credit facilities, to fund the construction of the 38,000 cbm 2017 newbuilding. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings in order to finance the expansion of our fleet may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could limit our ability to expand our fleet. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution. Please read “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Cash Needs.” 7 Table of Contents We may be unable to make, or realize the expected benefits from, acquisitions and the failure to successfully implement our growth strategy through acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes newbuildings or selectively acquiring existing liquefied gas carriers and investing in complementary assets. Factors such as competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do, could reduce our acquisition and investment opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any existing vessel or newbuilding we acquire (including the 2016 newbuildings and the 2017 newbuildings, of which four are not currently subject to charters) may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition or delivery and may not generate cash flow sufficient to cover the cost of acquisition. Market conditions at the time of delivery of any newbuildings may be such that charter rates are not favorable and the revenue generated by such vessels is not sufficient to cover their purchase prices. In addition, our acquisition and investment growth strategy exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions, such as new customer relationships, cost savings or increased cash flow; • not be able to obtain charters at favorable rates or at all; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet or engage a third-party technical manager to do the same; • fail to integrate investments of complementary assets or vessels in capacity ranges outside our current operations in a profitable manner; • not have adequate operating and financial systems in place as we implement our expansion plan; • decrease our liquidity through the use of a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. From time to time, we may selectively pursue new strategic acquisitions or ventures we believe complementary to our seaborne transportation services and any strategic transactions that are a departure from our historical operations could present unforeseen challenges and result in a competitive disadvantage relative to our more-established competitors. We may pursue strategic acquisitions or investment opportunities we believe complementary to our core business of owning and operating handysize liquefied gas carriers and the transportation of LPG, petrochemical gases and ammonia. Such ventures may include, but are not limited to operating liquefied gas carriers in different size 8 Table of Contents categories, expanding the types of cargo we carry and/or ventures involved in the distribution, mixing and/or storage of liquefied gas cargoes. While we have general knowledge and experience in the seaborne transportation services industry, we have no meaningful operating history outside of the ownership and operation of handysize liquefied gas carriers and the transportation of LPG, petrochemical gases and ammonia. Any investments we pursue outside of our historical provision of seaborne transportation services could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing operation and growth of our fleet. We may face several factors that could impair our ability to successfully execute these acquisitions or investments including, among others, the following: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, licenses or permits from different governmental or regulatory authorities, including environmental permits; • unexpected cost increases or shortages in the equipment, materials or labor required for the venture, which could cause the venture to become economically unfeasible; and • unforeseen engineering, design or environmental problems. Any of these factors could delay any such acquisitions or investment opportunities and could increase our projected capital costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions or investments into our historical business, any costs incurred in connection with these projects may not be recoverable. If we experience delays, cost overruns, or changes in market circumstances, we may not be able to demonstrate the commercial viability of such acquisitions or investment opportunities or achieve the intended economic benefits, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operations outside of the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, we may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We derive some of our revenues from transporting gas cargoes from, to and within politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. In addition, vessels operating in some of these regions have been subject to piracy. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries where we engage in business as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or other events may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during a war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The geopolitical risks associated with chartering vessels to Indonesian and Venezuelan state-owned corporations are significant and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Petróleos de Venezuela S.A., or “PDVSA,” is a state-owned corporation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. PDVSA currently employs three of our vessels. PT Pertamina (Persero), or “Pertamina,” is a state-owned corporation of the Republic of Indonesia. Pertamina also currently employs three of our vessels. Collectively, our charters with PDVSA and Pertamina generated approximately 20.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our vessels that are chartered to Pertamina and PDVSA are subject to various 9 Table of Contents risks, including (i) loss of revenue, property or equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, changes in laws, exchange controls, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes or other political risks, (ii) being subject to foreign laws and legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of Venezuelan or Indonesian courts or tribunals and (iii) the unilateral renegotiation of contracts and changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign companies in Venezuela or Indonesia. In addition, if a contract dispute arises it may be difficult for us to enforce our contractual rights against either Pertamina or PDVSA, as it may claim sovereign immunity against judgments from foreign courts. As a result, we are subject to significant economic uncertainty associated with doing business with state-owned corporations. We cannot predict how government policies may change under the current or any future Venezuelan or Indonesian administration, and future government policies could have a substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend to a significant degree upon third-party managers to provide technical management services for our fleet. We subcontract the majority of the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to third-party technical managers, Bernhard Schulte Ship Management, or “BSSM,” Northern Marine Management Ltd., or “NMM,” and Thome Ship Management Pte Ltd, or “Thome.” Our technical managers, in turn, contract with one or more manning agents for the provision of crews for our vessels. Although we have subcontracted the technical management of portions of our fleet to BSSM since 2001, NMM since 2009 and Thome since 2015, our agreements with them are subject to annual renewal and may be terminated by us or our technical managers with three months’ notice. The loss of services of one or all of our technical managers or a failure to perform their obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Although we may have rights against our technical managers if they were to default on their obligations, shareholders will have no recourse against our technical managers. In addition, if we were to lose the services of one or all of our technical managers, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to find replacement technical managers on terms as favorable as those currently in place. The ability of our technical managers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our technical managers’ financial strength. Because our technical managers are privately held, it is unlikely that information about their financial strength will be available. As a result, we might have little advance warning of problems that affect our technical managers, even though those problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to replace our technical managers or to successfully take over and perform the technical management of the vessels being managed by our technical managers would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We expect that in 2016 we will begin providing in-house technical management, for the first time, for at least one vessel in our fleet We have not in the past provided in-house technical management for any vessel in our fleet. Providing in-house technical management for any vessel in our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff. Further, because we have no prior experience providing technical management in-house, our technical managers may encounter challenges as we establish and refine our technical management system. Some charterers may not charter our vessels if they do not accept our in-house technical managers as qualified technical managers or if they require the technical management of vessels to be performed by third party technical managers. Furthermore, some charterers may require technical managers to have a minimum of two years of experience with managing a vessel’s on-board safety management systems. We will provide in-house technical management for a vessel in our fleet only if the charterer so agrees. Similarly, certain ports may not allow our vessels that are managed by technical in-house managers into their terminals to load or discharge cargoes. If we are not successful with respect to any vessel for which we may provide technical management in-house, our reputation and ability to charter vessels may be negatively impacted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents A fluctuation in fuel prices may adversely affect our charter rates for time charters and our cost structure for voyage charters and COAs. The price and supply of bunker fuel are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. A significant portion of our revenues are generated by time charters, the terms of which require our customers to incur the cost of bunker fuel. During 2015 fuel prices declined to their lowest levels since 2005. Bunker fuel prices have continued to decline in 2016. However, if the fuel price increases our customers may be less willing in the future to enter into charters under which they bear the full risk of price increases or may shorten the periods for which they are willing to make such commitments. Under voyage charters and COAs, we bear the cost of bunker fuel used to power our vessels. In the future, we may experience an increase in bunker fuel prices that would correspondingly increase our voyage expenses under each of our voyages charters and COAs, which would adversely affect our profitability. The required drydocking of our vessels could have a more significant adverse impact on our revenues than we anticipate, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The drydocking of our vessels requires significant capital expenditures and results in loss of revenue while our vessels are off-hire. Any significant increase in the number of days of off-hire due to such drydocking or in the costs of any repairs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we attempt to ensure that no more than one vessel will be out of service at any given time, this may not always be possible because we may underestimate the time required to drydock our vessels, or unanticipated problems may arise. Our operating costs are likely to increase in the future as our vessels age, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our vessels age, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient and more costly to maintain than newer vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels to comply. These laws or regulations may also restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage or limit their operation in certain geographic regions. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their expected useful lives. The loss or inability to operate any of our vessels would result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We do not carry loss of hire insurance. If, at any time, we cannot operate any of our vessels due to loss of the vessel, mechanical problems, lack of seafarers to crew a vessel, prolonged drydocking periods, loss of certification, the loss of any charter or otherwise, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. In the worst case, we may not receive any revenues because of the inability to operate any of our vessels, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. An economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future adverse economic conditions may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels. There has historically been a strong link 11 Table of Contents between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including liquefied gases. The world economy is currently facing a number of challenges. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for liquefied gases and have a negative impact on our customers. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, a future economic slowdown could have an impact on our customers and/or suppliers including, among other things, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Similarly, a future economic slowdown could affect lenders participating in our secured term loan and revolving credit facilities, making them unable to fulfill their commitments and obligations to us. Any reductions in activity owing to such conditions or failure by our customers, suppliers or lenders to meet their contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in the seaborne liquefied gas transportation business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from vessels that operate in the seaborne liquefied gas transportation business. Unlike many other shipping companies, which have vessels that can carry drybulk, crude oil and oil products, we depend exclusively on the transport of LPG, petrochemicals and ammonia. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the international liquefied gas shipping industry would have a significantly greater impact on our business, financial condition and operating results than it would if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, cargo receivers and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against all of the vessels in our fleet for claims relating to only one of our ships. The arrest of any of our vessels would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience operational problems with vessels that reduce revenue and increase costs. Liquefied gas carriers are complex vessels and their operation is technically challenging. Marine transportation operations are subject to mechanical risks and problems. Operational problems may lead to loss of revenue or higher than anticipated operating expenses or require additional capital expenditures. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A shortage of qualified officers makes it more difficult to crew our vessels and increases our operating costs. If a shortage were to develop, it could impair our ability to operate and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our liquefied gas carriers require technically skilled officer staff with specialized training. As the world liquefied gas carrier fleet and the liquefied natural gas, or “LNG,” carrier fleet continue to grow, the demand for such 12 Table of Contents technically skilled officers has increased and could lead to a shortage of such personnel. If our technical managers were to be unable to employ such technically skilled officers, they would not be able to adequately staff our vessels and effectively train crews. The development of a deficit in the supply of technically skilled officers or an inability of our technical managers to attract and retain such qualified officers could impair our ability to operate and increase the cost of crewing our vessels and, thus, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Please read “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Crewing and Staff.” Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with, Lloyd’s Register or DNV GL Group AS. All of our vessels have been awarded International Safety Management certification. As part of the certification process, a vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Seven of the vessels in our existing fleet are on a planned maintenance system, or “PMS,” approval, and as such the classification society attends on-board once every year to verify that the maintenance of the on-board equipment is done correctly. The remaining ships are operating continuous management surveys. All of the vessels in our fleet have been qualified within its respective classification society for drydocking once every five years, subject to an intermediate underwater survey done using an approved diving company in the presence of a surveyor from the classification society. When gas carriers reach an age of 15 years, they must undergo hull / bottom surveys twice in each five-year cycle, with a maximum of 30 months between each underwater survey. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our fleet includes sets of sister ships, which have identical specifications. As a result, any latent design or equipment defect discovered in one of our sister ships will likely affect all of the other vessels. Our vessels consist of a number of sets of sister ships, ranging from two vessels to six vessels, and our newbuildings also consist of sets of sister ships. The vessels in each set of sister ships were or will be built based on standard designs and are uniform in all material respects. Any latent design defects in one of the sister ships would likely affect all of its respective sister ships. We cannot assure you that latent defects will not be discovered in any of these vessels. In addition, all vessels that are sister ships have the same or similar equipment as all other such vessels. As a result, any equipment defect discovered in one vessel may affect one or all of the vessels that are sister ships with that vessel. Any disruptions in the operation of the vessels in our fleet, resulting from any such defects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Delays in deliveries of newbuildings or acquired vessels, or deliveries of vessels with significant defects, could harm our operating results and lead to the termination of any related charters that may be entered into prior to their delivery. The delivery of any of the newbuildings we have ordered or may order or of any vessels we agree to acquire in the future could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under any future charters we enter into for the vessels. In addition, under some of the charters we may enter into for these newbuildings, if our delivery of a vessel to the customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, 13 Table of Contents under some charters, almost double the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter, resulting in loss of revenues. The delivery of any newbuilding with substantial defects could have similar consequences. Our receipt of newbuildings could be delayed because of many factors, including: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances in the locations where the vessels are being built; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of, or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • our inability to finance the purchase of the vessels; or • our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. We do not carry delay of delivery insurance to cover any losses that are not covered by delay penalties in our construction contracts. As a result, if delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. The process of obtaining new charters is highly competitive, generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors, including: • the operator’s industry relationships, experience and reputation for customer service, quality operations and safety; • the quality, experience and technical capability of the crew; • the operator’s relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • the operator’s construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; • the operator’s willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • the competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. Our ability to obtain new customers will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • successfully manage our liquidity and obtain the necessary financing to fund our growth; • attract, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and ship management companies to manage and operate our fleet; • identify and consummate desirable acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances; and • identify and capitalize on opportunities in new markets. 14 Table of Contents We expect substantial competition for providing transportation services from a number of experienced companies. As a result, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The marine transportation industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may limit our operations and increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international treaties and conventions, including those relating to equipping and operating vessels and vessel safety. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or “OPA 90,” the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or “IMO,” including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as the CLC, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as MARPOL, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as SOLAS, the IMO International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, as from time to time amended, the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or the “ISM Code,” the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, generally referred to as the Bunker Convention, and the European Union 2015 Regulation on the monitoring, reporting, and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or further increase costs, which could harm our business. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of operations. We may become subject to additional laws and regulations if we enter into new markets or trades. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of the public, regulators, insurance underwriters and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements, greater inspection and safety requirements on all vessels in the marine transportation markets and possibly restrictions on the emissions of greenhouse gases from the operation of vessels. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our operations and the failure to comply with these requirements may affect the ability of our vessels to obtain and, possibly, collect on insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where we operate. Please read “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulation” for a more detailed discussion on these topics. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from vessel emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Additionally, a treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase our costs of operating and maintaining our vessels and could require us to make significant financial expenditures that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an effect on demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for 15 Table of Contents oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Marine transportation is inherently risky. An incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Our vessels and their cargoes and the LPG and petrochemical production and terminal facilities that we service are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from time charters; • liabilities or costs to recover any spilled cargo and to restore the ecosystem where the spill occurred; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. The liquefied gas carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of propane and butane for heating during the winter months in the Northern Hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. While our time charters typically provide a uniform monthly fee over the term of the charter, to the extent any of our time charters expires during the relatively weaker fiscal quarters ending June 30 and September 30, we may have difficultly re-chartering those vessels at similar rates or at all. Competition from more technologically advanced liquefied gas carriers could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes fuel economy, speed and the 16 Table of Contents ability to be loaded and unloaded quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter ports, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new liquefied gas carriers are built that are more efficient or flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced liquefied gas carriers could adversely affect the charter rates we receive for our vessels once their current charters are terminated and the resale value of our vessels. As a result, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Acts of piracy on any of our vessels or on ocean going vessels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, and West Africa. If such piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being named on the Joint War Committee Listed Areas, war-risk insurance premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage might become more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs that may be incurred to the extent we employ on-board security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities, piracy or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of production and distribution of LPG, petrochemical gases and ammonia, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, petrochemical production and terminal facilities and vessels that transport petrochemical products could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport gases to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, piracy, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of gases to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate our charters, which would harm our cash flow and business. In addition, the loss of a vessel as a result of terrorism or piracy would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our vessels or result from our operations. The operation of liquefied gas carriers is inherently risky. We may not be able to adequately insure against all risks, and any particular claim may not be paid by insurance. None of our vessels are insured against loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time. Certain insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if the member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. The costs arising from a catastrophic spill or marine disaster could exceed the insurance coverage. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks or piracy may also make certain types of insurance more 17 Table of Contents expensive or more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Restrictive covenants in our secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility impose, and any future debt facilities will impose, financial and other restrictions on us. The secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility impose, and any future debt facility will impose, operating and financial restrictions on us. The restrictions in the existing secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility may limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends out of operating revenues generated by the vessels securing indebtedness under the facility, redeem any shares or make any other payment to our equity holders, if there is a default under any secured term loan facility or revolving credit facility; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • create liens on our assets; • sell our vessels; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; and • enter into a new line of business. The secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility require us to maintain various financial ratios. These include requirements that we maintain specified maximum ratios of net debt to total capitalization, that we maintain specified minimum levels of cash and cash equivalents (including undrawn lines of credit with maturities greater than 12 months), that we maintain specified minimum ratios of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (consolidated EBITDA), to consolidated interest expense and that we maintain specified minimum levels of collateral coverage. Under our secured term loan facilities, if at any time the aggregate fair market value of (i) the vessels subject to a mortgage in favor of our lenders and (ii) the value of any additional collateral we grant to the lenders is less than 135% of the outstanding principal amount under the secured term loan facilities and any commitments to borrow additional funds, our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral. Upon notice from our lenders that additional collateral is required, we will have 30 days to either provide collateral that is acceptable to the lenders, cancel remaining commitments to lend and/or prepay outstanding debt in an amount to maintain the minimum collateral coverage ratio. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Secured Term Loan Facilities and Revolving Credit Facility—Financial Covenants.” The failure to comply with such covenants would cause an event of default that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because of these covenants, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we may not be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may limit our ability to finance our future operations and make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Secured Term Loan Facilities and Revolving Credit Facility.” The secured term loan facilities are reducing facilities. The required repayments under the secured term loan facilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Loans under the secured term loan facilities are subject to quarterly repayments beginning three months after the initial borrowing date or delivery dates of the newbuildings, as applicable. If at such time we have not made 18 Table of Contents alternative financing arrangements or generate substantial cash flows, any such repayments and our declining borrowing availability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to borrow further amounts under the secured term loan facilities, which we may need to fund the acquisition of the remaining newbuildings that we have agreed to purchase. Our ability to borrow further amounts under the secured term loan facilities will be subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may be required to repay a portion of our existing debt or provide additional collateral and we may not be able to borrow further amounts under the secured term loan facilities. If we are unable to borrow further amounts under the secured term loan facilities, we may be unable to fund the acquisition of the newbuildings that we have agreed to purchase, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The derivative contracts we may enter into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and reductions in our shareholders’ equity, as well as charges against our income. We may enter into interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility which were advanced at floating rates based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. To the extent our future derivative contracts may not qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes, we will recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our statement of income. In addition, changes in the fair value of future derivative contracts, even those that qualify for treatment as hedges, will be recognized in “Other Comprehensive Income” on our balance sheet, and can affect compliance with the net worth covenant requirements in our secured term loan facilities. Our financial condition could also be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements under which loans have been advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. Our business depends upon certain key employees. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon our senior management, including our chairman, president and chief executive officer, David J. Butters. Mr. Butters has substantial experience in the shipping industry and he and others are crucial to the development of our business strategy and to the growth and development of our business. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our major shareholder may exert considerable influence on the outcome of matters on which our shareholders will be entitled to vote, and its interests may be different from yours. The WLR Group, our principal shareholder, owned approximately 39.5% of our common stock, as of December 31, 2015. The WLR Group may exert considerable influence on the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our directors to our board of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of the WLR Group may be different from your interests. 19 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by the Republic of the Marshall Islands law, which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. In addition, under the secured term loan facilities, Navigator Gas L.L.C., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and our vessel-owning subsidiaries that are parties to the secured term loan facilities and revolving credit facility may not make distributions to us out of operating revenues from vessels securing indebtedness thereunder, redeem any shares or make any other payment to our shareholders if an event of default has occurred and is continuing. Please read “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Secured Term Loan Facilities and Revolving Credit Facility.” The inability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We may issue additional equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or equity-linked securities without the approval of our shareholders, subject to certain limited approval requirements of the NYSE. In particular, we may finance all or a portion of the acquisition price of future vessels, including newbuildings, that we agree to purchase through the issuance of additional shares of common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation, which became effective on November 5, 2013, authorize us to issue up to 400,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 55,363,467 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2015. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or other equity or equity-linked securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and • the market price of the common stock may decline. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. The WLR Group, our principal shareholder, owned approximately 39.5% of our common stock, as of December 31, 2015. In the future, the WLR Group may elect to sell large numbers of shares from time to time. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We have no current plans to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your shares of common stock at a price greater than you paid for it. There is no guarantee that the market price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that you pay. The obligations associated with being a public company requires significant resources and management attention. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the “Exchange Act,” and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the 20 Table of Contents “Sarbanes-Oxley Act,” the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. As we are no longer an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Act, or the “JOBS Act,” there are additional compliance and regulations that have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and placed greater demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we continue to take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative costs and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply with Section 404 could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, impair our ability to raise capital, cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and negatively affect our share price. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and therefore, we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and related rules and regulations. Under Rule 405, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on June 30, 2016. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our shareholders, directors or management are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC,” which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. For example, the annual report on Form 10-K requires domestic issuers to disclose executive compensation information on an individual basis with specific disclosure regarding the domestic compensation philosophy, objectives, annual total compensation (base salary, bonus, equity compensation) and potential payments in connection with change in control, retirement, death or disability, while the annual report on Form 20-F, including this annual report, permits foreign private issuers to disclose compensation information on an 21 Table of Contents aggregate basis. We will also have to mandatorily comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will become subject to the short-swing profit disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the “BCA.” The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the Republic of the Marshall Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Because we are a Marshall Islands corporation, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are a Marshall Islands corporation, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. A majority of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is substantial doubt that the courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands would (1) enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws; or (2) recognize or enforce against us or any of our officers, directors or experts, judgments of courts of the United States predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. We are a Marshall Islands corporation, have limited operations in the United States and maintain limited assets in the United States. Consequently, in the event of any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding involving us, bankruptcy laws other than those of the United States could apply. The Republic of the Marshall Islands does not have a bankruptcy statute or general statutory mechanism for insolvency proceedings. If we become a debtor under U.S. bankruptcy law, bankruptcy courts in the United States may seek to assert jurisdiction over all of our assets, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that we would become a debtor in the United States, or that a U.S. bankruptcy court would be entitled to, or accept, jurisdiction over such a bankruptcy case, or that courts in other countries that have jurisdiction over us and our operations would recognize a U.S. bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction if any other bankruptcy court would determine it had jurisdiction. These factors may delay or prevent us from entering bankruptcy in the United States and may affect the ability of our shareholders to receive any recovery following our bankruptcy. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have anti-takeover effects. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of 22 Table of Contents control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire our company. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Blank Check Preferred Stock. Under the terms of our articles of incorporation our board of directors has the authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Our board could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or rights of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of our management and may harm the market price of our common stock. Election of Directors. Our articles of incorporation provide that directors will be elected at each annual meeting of shareholders to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, except in the event of his or her death, resignation, removal or the earlier termination of his or her term of office. Our articles of incorporation do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our bylaws require shareholders to provide advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations. Our bylaws provide that, with a few exceptions, shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive office not less than 90 days or more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders. Our bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice. These provisions may impede a shareholder’s ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. Limited Actions by Shareholders. Our bylaws provide that only the board of directors may call special meetings of our shareholders and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, please read “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Taxation of the Company” and “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common stock. We will be subject to taxes. We and our subsidiaries will be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we are organized or operate. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may disagree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in additional tax being imposed on us or our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. 23 Table of Contents U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or “PFIC,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or at least 50.0% of the average value of its assets produce, or are held for the production of, “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. Based on our current and projected method of operation we believe that we were not a PFIC for any taxable year, and we expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. We believe that more than 25.0% of our gross income for each taxable year was or will be non-passive income, and more than 50.0% of the average value of our assets for each such year was or will be held for the production of such non-passive income. This belief is based on certain valuations and projections regarding our assets, income and charters, and its validity is conditioned on the accuracy of such valuations and projections. While we believe such valuations and projections to be accurate, the shipping market is volatile and no assurance can be given that our assumptions and conclusions will continue to be accurate at any time in the future. Moreover, there are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from our time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services. In Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, or the “Fifth Circuit,” held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code,” relating to foreign sales corporations. In that case, the Fifth Circuit did not address the definition of passive income or the PFIC rules; however, the reasoning of the case could have implications as to how the income from a time charter would be classified under such rules. If the reasoning of the case were extended to the PFIC context, the gross income we derive from our time-chartering activities may be treated as rental income, and we would likely be treated as a PFIC. In published guidance, the Internal Revenue Service, or “IRS,” stated that it disagreed with the holding in Tidewater, and specified that time charters similar to those at issue in that case should be treated as service contracts. We have not sought, and we do not expect to seek, an IRS ruling on the treatment of income generated from our time-chartering activities. As a result, the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. No assurance can be given that this result will not occur. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid being classified as a PFIC with respect to each taxable year, we cannot assure shareholders that the nature of our operations will not change in the future and that we will not become a PFIC in the future. If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Please read “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders and—Distributions—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our cash flow. Under the Code, “U.S. source gross transportation income” (as defined below) generally is subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction of expenses, unless an exemption from tax applies under a tax treaty or Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. U.S. source gross transportation income consists of 50.0% of the gross transportation income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves that is attributable to transportation that either begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. 24 Table of Contents If a non-U.S. corporation satisfies the requirements of Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, it will not be subject to the 4.0% U.S. federal income tax referenced above on its U.S. source gross transportation income. The Section 883 exemption does not apply to income attributable to transportation that both begins and ends in the United States. We believe that we satisfied the requirements to qualify for an exemption from U.S. tax on our U.S. source gross transportation income imposed by Section 883 of the Code for 2014 and 2015, and that we will be able to satisfy those requirements for 2016 and future taxable years provided that our common stock satisfies certain listing and trading requirements and not more than 50.0% of our common stock is owned, or is deemed to be owned by operation of certain attribution rules, for more than half of the days of such year, by 5.0% shareholders. The composition of owners of our common stock, including the quantity a shareholder may purchase in a given year, and the trading volumes of our common stock, are beyond our control. As a result, there can be no assurance that we can satisfy this stock ownership requirement for the current or any future year, in which case we would likely not qualify for an exemption under Section 883 for such year. If we fail to qualify for this exemption in any taxable year, U.S. source gross transportation income earned by us and our subsidiaries will generally be subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal income tax. For a more detailed discussion of Section 883 of the Code, the rules relating to exemptions under Section 883 and our ability to qualify for an exemption, please read Item 4B “Business—Taxation of the Company—U.S. Taxation.” The vessels in our fleet do not currently engage in transportation that begins and ends in the United States, and we do not expect that we or our subsidiaries will in the future earn income from such transportation. If, notwithstanding this expectation, our subsidiaries earn income in the future from transportation that begins and ends in the United States, that income would be subject to a 35% net income tax in the United States. 