ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or expectations contained in our forward-looking statements. In addition, the risk factors described in the Cheniere Partners Annual Report could affect the financial performance of Cheniere Partners, and consequently us, or could cause Cheniere Partners’ actual results to differ materially from estimates or expectations contained in Cheniere Partners’ forward-looking statements. We and Cheniere Partners may encounter risks in addition to those described. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or Cheniere Partners, or that we or Cheniere Partners currently deem to be immaterial, may also impair or adversely affect the business, contracts, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and prospects of Cheniere Partners or us. Please also read the “Risk Factors” within the Cheniere Partners Annual Report.The risk factors in this report are grouped into the following categories: •Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Shares; and •Tax Risks.Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our SharesOur only cash-generating assets are our limited partner interests in Cheniere Partners, and our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of Cheniere Partners to make cash distributions to its unitholders. Cheniere Partners may not be successful in its efforts to maintain or increase its cash available for distribution on its units.Our only cash-generating assets are our limited partner interests in Cheniere Partners. Our cash flows are therefore completely dependent upon the ability of Cheniere Partners to make distributions to its unitholders. Cheniere Partners may not be successful in its efforts to maintain or increase its cash available for distribution on its units. The amount of cash that Cheniere Partners can distribute each quarter to its unitholders principally depends upon the items discussed in Cheniere Partners’ Annual Report under Item 1.A “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Cash Distributions.” Because of these factors, Cheniere Partners may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue to pay quarterly distributions in respect of the common units at its most recently paid amount of $0.425 per unit or any other amount, and Cheniere Partners may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to make any distributions in respect of the subordinated units. In addition, if Cheniere Partners does not continue to pay quarterly distributions, we will not be able to continue to pay dividends to our shareholders. Consistent with the terms of our partnership agreement, Cheniere Partners distributes to its partners all of its available cash each quarter. To the extent Cheniere Partners does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. Furthermore, to the extent Cheniere Partners issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital projects, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that Cheniere Partners will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may lower the amount of cash that we have available to pay dividends on our outstanding shares. If we issue additional shares or incur debt, the amount of cash that we have available to pay dividends on our outstanding shares could be reduced.5The amount of cash that we have available to pay dividends on our shares will be reduced by, among other things, income taxes and reserves established by our Board.Our LLC Agreement requires us to pay dividends on our shares equal to the amount of cash distributions received from Cheniere Partners in respect of our Cheniere Partners units, less income taxes and any reserves established by our Board. Given that our only cash-generating assets are limited partner interests in Cheniere Partners, and we currently have no independent operations separate from those of Cheniere Partners, we may not have enough cash to meet our needs if our general and administrative expenses increase or if Cheniere Partners’ cash needs increase, resulting in a reduction in Cheniere Partners’ distributions. Furthermore, under the Services Agreement, we pay administrative fees to an affiliate of Cheniere and reimburse it for expenses incurred on our behalf. We may also incur administrative and other expenses directly to operate our company. The payment of fees and the reimbursement of expenses to Cheniere, as well as the incurrence of expenses, reduces our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. We expect the total costs payable under the Services Agreement, together with any third-party costs we pay directly, to be approximately $2.5 million per year. If a Cheniere Separation Event takes place, our directors and officers who are also directors or officers of Cheniere would resign. However, the Services Agreement would not automatically terminate. At such time, we expect that we will have increased costs related to hiring new officers and financial or business consultants. If we cease to control GP Holdco, we may be deemed an “investment company,” which could impose restrictions on us.We rely on an exemption from being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (“the Investment Company Act”) available to companies engaged in a non-investment company business through a controlled subsidiary. However, if we cease to control GP Holdco for any reason, we may be deemed to be an “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. If Cheniere’s ownership is reduced to less than 25% of our outstanding shares or if Cheniere otherwise relinquishes the director voting share, which it may do in its sole discretion, our non-economic voting interest in GP Holdco will be extinguished. Our non-economic voting interest in GP Holdco allows us to control GP Holdco and indirectly to appoint four of the eleven directors to the board of directors of Cheniere Partners’ general partner. If, for any reason, our non-economic voting interest in GP Holdco is extinguished, we may be subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As an investment company, we would be subject to restrictions under the Investment Company Act that could be material to our operations and financial flexibility or require changes to our operations, including the following:•Cheniere Partners could be deemed an affiliated person with respect to us, and holders of more than 5% of our shares would also be affiliated persons of Cheniere Partners, and sales of securities or other property between us and any affiliated person could be prohibited;•we may be required to modify our financial statements to reflect a change from the equity method of accounting to the fair value method of accounting, which might result in a change to the way we value our assets;•we would be restricted from having more than one class of senior debt securities and one class of senior equity securities, such as indebtedness or preferred stock, and we could only issue such senior securities if certain coverage tests are met relative to payments to be made to holders of senior securities, including asset coverage of 300% for debt securities and asset coverage of 200% for preferred stock;•we would be subject to compliance review and record-keeping requirements that would add to our operating expenses and increase the amount of cash we would have to reserve from the distributions we receive from Cheniere Partners to enable us to pay such expenses;•there may be restrictions on the extent to which certain types of investors could invest in our shares, such as registered investment companies, Section 3(c)(1) funds and Section 3(c)(7) funds (traditionally hedge funds and private equity funds);•we would be restricted from selling our shares in subsequent offerings for less than the net asset value of our underlying assets; and•we would be subject to stricter corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that at least 40% of our directors qualify as “independent.”In addition to the factors listed above, we believe that we would not be a company with the characteristics that are typically associated with investment companies that the SEC is accustomed to regulating under the Investment Company Act. Therefore, 6the SEC might seek to impose additional operational restrictions on us that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Upon a Cheniere Separation Event, we may lose the ability to disclose developments about Cheniere Partners’ business and results of operations to our shareholders in a timely manner.Upon a Cheniere Separation Event, we would no longer have access to information about developments regarding Cheniere Partners’ business and results of operations (other than information that Cheniere Partners reports to the public). We would consequently be unable to provide information concerning Cheniere Partners’ business to our shareholders simultaneously with announcements by Cheniere Partners in our annual, quarterly and current reports or in any future offering documents relating to our securities. Any delay in our ability to announce information regarding Cheniere Partners’ business and results of operations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares.Cheniere owns a majority of our outstanding shares and the director voting share and therefore is able to amend our LLC Agreement and elect and remove members of our Board without the vote of the holders of any other shares.Cheniere owns 80.1% of our outstanding shares, as well as our director voting share. By holding the director voting share and more than 50% of our outstanding shares, Cheniere has the ability to control us, including amending our LLC Agreement, without the vote of a holder of any other shares. Furthermore, under Delaware law, Cheniere is able to take certain actions by written consent of the majority of the outstanding shares without calling a meeting of our shareholders. In addition, as the owner of our director voting share, Cheniere has the sole ability to elect our directors until a Cheniere Separation Event. While Cheniere continues to beneficially own a majority of our outstanding shares and our director voting share, shareholders that are not affiliated with Cheniere have limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, which could affect the price at which our shares trade.If Cheniere transfers its interest in GP Holdco to a non-affiliate, it will lose its ability to appoint the members of our Board.Cheniere owns the director voting share, the sole share entitled to vote in the election of our directors. In the event Cheniere transfers its interest in GP Holdco to a non-affiliate, it will also be required to transfer the director voting share. Any such change in the ownership of the director voting share could have an adverse impact on the market price of our shares and our financial results.Our LLC Agreement prohibits us from selling Cheniere Partners units that we own, and we are restricted from selling the Cheniere Partners units that we own by applicable securities laws.Our LLC Agreement prohibits us from selling, pledging or otherwise transferring any of the common units, subordinated units or Class B units that we own, or the common units into which the subordinated units and Class B units convert. Unlike a business that can sell its assets in order to generate cash or increase liquidity, we would be unable to do so without an amendment of our LLC Agreement. Although Cheniere, through its ownership of a majority of our shares, is able to amend our LLC Agreement, the Cheniere Partners units we hold constitute restricted securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Absent an amendment to our LLC Agreement and an effective registration statement covering the sale of our Cheniere Partners units, we are unable to generate cash through sales of the Cheniere Partners units we hold, which could affect our liquidity. In addition, until a Cheniere Separation Event, we need Cheniere’s consent to sell any of the Cheniere Partners units that we hold. Our LLC Agreement does not prohibit us from purchasing additional Cheniere Partners units, although we have no current intention to do so. However, if we did acquire additional Cheniere Partners units, we would be unable to sell any such additional Cheniere Partners units without an effective registration statement covering the sale of those Cheniere Partners units or an exemption from the registration requirements. If we choose to sell Cheniere Partners units pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act, our sales of such Cheniere Partners units would be subject to volume limitations, regardless of whether we continue to be an “affiliate” of Cheniere Partners (as such term is defined under the Securities Act). However, if we are unable to sell Cheniere Partners units that we acquire on the open market, our liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected.7We are restricted from acquiring additional Cheniere Partners units with the proceeds of indebtedness, if that indebtedness is secured by Cheniere Partners units that we own, to the extent those secured Cheniere Partners units would constitute margin securities.If we acquire additional Cheniere Partners units with the proceeds of indebtedness, and we secure that indebtedness with the Cheniere Partners units that we own, we will be restricted from securing the Cheniere Partners units to the extent they would be considered “margin securities” under Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which generally restricts us from taking on secured debt with an aggregate principal amount of greater than 40% of the value of the Cheniere Partners units securing the debt.The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly, and the value of our shares may be difficult for investors to accurately assess.The market price of our shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the trading price of Cheniere Partners units;•the level of Cheniere Partners’ quarterly distributions (including whether Cheniere Partners is paying distributions on the subordinated units) and our quarterly dividends;•Cheniere Partners’ quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in its industry;•the loss of a large customer by Cheniere Partners;•announcements by Cheniere Partners or its competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic conditions;•the impact of Investment Company Act regulations on our business;•future sales of our shares; and•other factors described in these “Risk Factors” and the “Risk Factors” in the Cheniere Partners Annual Report.In addition, a number of factors may make it difficult for investors to accurately assess the value of our shares and may adversely impact the market price of our shares. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•we are a limited liability company structured as a non-operating holding company that owns, and our only business consists of owning, Cheniere Partners units;•our financial condition and results of operations are dependent entirely upon the performance of Cheniere Partners, and we do not expect to have any revenues or cash flow other than from distributions that we receive in respect of our Cheniere Partners units;•due to the illiquid nature of the subordinated and Class B units that we own, it is difficult to value our assets;•we account for our ownership of the Cheniere Partners units in our consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, which shows historical cost, but items of income and expense related to the Cheniere Partners units are not necessarily reported and our consolidated financial statements may not accurately reflect the value of Cheniere Partners’ assets and operations as they relate to the value of our ownership in Cheniere Partners; and•we have elected to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposesIf investors are unable to adequately value our shares due to these and other factors, the market price of our shares may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our shares, which could result in a loss of some or all of your investment in us.8Our share price may be substantially different than the market price of the Cheniere Partners units that we own.We do not expect the price of our shares to be linked to the market price of the Cheniere Partners units for the following reasons:•our shares are not issued on a one to one ratio with the number of Cheniere Partners units that we hold;•the aggregate amount of dividends on our shares may be lower than the aggregate amount of distributions we receive because the cash we have to pay dividends may be reduced by income taxes and reserves established by our Board;•our assets include the subordinated units, which do not currently receive cash distributions, and the Class B units, neither of which is admitted for trading on a national securities exchange nor has a liquid trading market; and•the other risks described in these Risk Factors.Upon Cheniere Partners being involved in a cash merger, going private, or selling all or substantially all of its assets (a “Termination Transaction”), the aggregate net proceeds that our shareholders receive from us may, as a result of our corporate income tax liabilities from the transaction and other factors, be substantially lower than the aggregate net proceeds received by us from Cheniere Partners. As a result of these considerations, our shares may trade at a substantial discount to the market price of the Cheniere Partners units, and the trading price of our shares may not be linked to the trading price of the Cheniere Partners units.We may issue additional shares without shareholder approval, which would dilute your indirect ownership interest in Cheniere Partners.Our LLC Agreement does not limit the number of additional shares that we may issue at any time without the approval of our shareholders. The issuance by us of additional shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest will decrease;•the amount of cash available for dividends on each share may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and•the market price of our shares may decline.Cheniere Partners may issue additional units without our or your approval, which would dilute our direct and your indirect ownership interest in Cheniere Partners. The issuance by Cheniere Partners of additional units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank to the units that we hold will have the following effects:•our proportionate ownership interest in Cheniere Partners will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each Cheniere Partner unit may decrease, resulting in a decrease in the amount of cash available to pay dividends to you;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit, including the Cheniere Partners units that we hold, will be diminished; and•the market price of the Cheniere Partners units may decline, resulting in a decline in the market price of our shares. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE MKT rules and rely on exemptions from various corporate governance requirements.Our shares are traded on the NYSE MKT. A company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE MKT rules. A “controlled company” may elect not to comply with various corporate governance requirements of the NYSE MKT, including the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors, the requirement that its nominating and governance committee consist of all independent directors and the requirement that its compensation committee consist of all independent directors.9We are a “controlled company” because Cheniere owns a majority of our outstanding shares and the director voting share. Because we rely on certain of the “controlled company” exemptions and do not have a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee, owners of our common shares may not have the same corporate governance advantages afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE MKT.In addition, the rules of the NYSE MKT require us to obtain the affirmative vote from holders of at least a majority of our outstanding shares in order to issue, in a private offering, greater than 20% of our outstanding shares for less than the greater of book and market value of our shares. However, until such time as Cheniere ceases to own a majority of our outstanding shares, we would be able to make such an offering with the written consent of Cheniere and without the vote of any other of our shareholders.Our consolidated financial statements do not currently, and may not in the future, reflect the value of our assets in a manner familiar to investors.Cheniere Partners has not been profitable, and because we use the equity method of accounting, as of December 31, 2014, we reflect our investment in Cheniere Partners as having no value. Because Cheniere Partners does not expect to be profitable in the near future, our Consolidated Balance Sheet is likely to continue to reflect our assets as having no value for some period after Cheniere Partners does become profitable. It may therefore be difficult for investors to easily assess our business and results of operations, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares.Tax Risks As a member of the Cheniere consolidated group, we will not have complete control over our tax decisions and there could be conflicts of interest.For so long as Cheniere continues to own at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our shares, we and our U.S. subsidiaries will be included in Cheniere’s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we or one or more of our U.S. subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Cheniere or one or more of its subsidiaries for U.S. state or local income tax purposes. On December 18, 2013, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the “Tax Sharing Agreement”) with Cheniere that provides that for each period in which we or any of our subsidiaries are consolidated or combined with Cheniere for purposes of any tax return, Cheniere will prepare a pro forma tax return for us as if we filed our own consolidated, combined or unitary return, except that such pro forma tax return will generally include current income, deductions, credits and losses from us and a deemed net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward amount. The current deemed NOL carryforward amount is the amount of our gross deferred tax liability for financial reporting purposes immediately prior to the initial public offering of our common shares (the “IPO”) increased by any losses or credits that we recognized based on the pro forma tax returns and decreased by any amount we previously utilized on the pro forma tax returns, but in no event will the deemed NOL carryforward amount exceed Cheniere’s available consolidated NOL carryforward. We will be required to reimburse Cheniere for any taxes shown on the pro forma tax returns. In addition, by virtue of Cheniere’s controlling ownership and the Tax Sharing Agreement, Cheniere effectively controls all of our U.S. tax decisions in connection with any consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns in which we (or any of our subsidiaries) are included. The Tax Sharing Agreement provides that Cheniere will have the responsibility and discretion to prepare and file all consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns on our behalf (including the making of any tax elections), to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to such tax returns, and to determine the reimbursement amounts in connection with any pro forma tax returns. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Cheniere and us. For example, under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Cheniere will be able to choose to contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Cheniere and detrimental to us. As a member of the Cheniere consolidated group, we will be liable for the tax obligation of the Cheniere consolidated group to the extent any member fails to make any U.S. federal income tax payment.Notwithstanding the Tax Sharing Agreement, U.S. federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Cheniere or other members of Cheniere’s consolidated group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payments required by law, we could be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state or local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Cheniere or its subsidiaries for foreign, state or local income tax purposes.10If there is a determination that any of the restructuring transactions entered into prior to and in connection with our initial public offering are taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes and we cease to be a member of the Cheniere consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then Cheniere could incur significant income tax liabilities. We could be liable for the tax obligation of the Cheniere consolidated group to the extent any group member fails to make any U.S. federal income tax payment.Prior to and in connection with our initial public offering, we and other members of the Cheniere consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes participated in a series of restructuring transactions intended to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. No ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) was requested in connection with such restructuring transactions.Under the Internal Revenue Code, we will cease to be a member of the Cheniere consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes (a deconsolidation) if at any time Cheniere owns less than 80% of the vote or 80% of the value of our outstanding shares, whether by issuance of additional shares by us or by Cheniere’s sale or other disposition of our shares.If any of the restructuring transactions is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any reason, following a deconsolidation, Cheniere could incur significant income tax liabilities. In addition, as a member of the Cheniere consolidated group at the time of the restructuring transactions, we could be liable for Cheniere’s U.S. federal income tax liabilities related to the restructuring transactions to the extent Cheniere and other members of the Cheniere consolidated group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payment.The ability to use NOL carryforwards and certain other U.S. federal income tax attributes may be limited.For so long as we are included in Cheniere’s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our taxable income or loss will be included in Cheniere’s consolidated federal income tax return. Cheniere has experienced ownership changes for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code that will subject a significant amount of its consolidated NOL carryforwards to annual utilization limitations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although we do not expect it to, the utilization limitations may affect the timing of when these federal NOL carryforwards may be utilized. Subsequent trading activity in Cheniere shares or further changes in the ownership of Cheniere stock may cause additional ownership changes, which may ultimately affect the ability to fully utilize these federal NOL carryforwards.Upon a Termination Transaction, we may incur substantial corporate income tax liabilities in which case the aggregate amount we have to distribute may be substantially lower than the aggregate net proceeds we receive in respect of the Cheniere Partners units we own.Upon a liquidation of Cheniere Partners, unitholders will receive distributions in accordance with the positive balance in their respective capital accounts in their units. We are classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, in most states in which Cheniere Partners does business, for state income tax purposes. Upon a Termination Transaction, we will be required to liquidate and distribute the net after-tax proceeds of the transaction to you. We may incur substantial corporate income tax liabilities upon a Termination Transaction. The tax liability we incur will depend in part upon the amount by which the value of the Cheniere Partners units that we own exceeds our tax basis in the units. We expect our tax basis in our common units to decrease over time as we receive distributions that exceed the net income allocated to us by Cheniere Partners with respect to those units. As a result, we may incur substantial income tax liabilities upon such a transaction even if Cheniere Partners units decrease in value after we purchase them. The amount of cash or other property available for distribution to you upon our liquidation will be reduced by the amount of any such income taxes paid by us. As a result of these factors, upon a Termination Transaction, the aggregate amount we have to distribute may be substantially lower than the aggregate net proceeds received by us in respect of our Cheniere Partners units.11If Cheniere Partners were subject to a material amount of entity-level income taxes or similar taxes, whether as a result of being treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise, the value of Cheniere Partners units would be substantially reduced and, as a result, the value of our shares would be substantially reduced.The anticipated benefit of an investment in Cheniere Partners units depends largely on the assumption that Cheniere Partners will not be subject to a material amount of entity-level income taxes or similar taxes, and the anticipated benefit of an investment in our shares depends largely upon the value of Cheniere Partners units.Cheniere Partners may be subject to material entity-level U.S. federal income tax and state income taxes if it is treated as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because the common units are publicly traded, Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code requires that Cheniere Partners derive at least 90% of its gross income each year from the transportation, storage, processing and marketing of crude oil, natural gas and products thereof, or from certain other specified activities, in order to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that Cheniere Partners has satisfied this requirement and will continue to do so in the future, so we believe Cheniere Partners is and will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, Cheniere Partners has not obtained a ruling from the IRS regarding Cheniere Partners’ treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Moreover, current law or the business of Cheniere Partners may change so as to cause Cheniere Partners to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject Cheniere Partners to material entity-level U.S. federal income taxes, state income taxes or similar taxes. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress or the Obama Administration propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. One such Obama Administration budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 would, if enacted, tax publicly traded partnerships with “fossil fuels” activities as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning in 2021. We are unable to predict whether any such proposal will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the requirements for partnership status, affect or cause Cheniere Partners to change its business activities, change the character or treatment of portions of Cheniere Partners’ income and adversely affect our investment in Cheniere Partners units.If Cheniere Partners were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions from Cheniere Partners would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to Cheniere Partners unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon Cheniere Partners as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to its unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of Cheniere Partners as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to Cheniere Partners unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of Cheniere Partners common units we own and the value of our shares.The Partnership Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, then the initial quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on Cheniere Partners.If Cheniere Partners were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce the cash available for distribution to Cheniere Partners’ unitholders.Changes in current state law may subject Cheniere Partners to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to Cheniere Partners’ unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our shares. The Partnership Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the initial quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on Cheniere Partners.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.12