Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a smaller reporting company as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information under this Item. However, factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in this Annual Report include any of the risks described in our prospectus as filed with the SEC on October 25, 2013. The information provided below updates that discussion. For a complete understanding of the subject, you should read both together. Any of these factors could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. 17 NASDAQ may suspend or delist our shares from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our shares and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Although at the time of our initial listing we met the applicable minimum initial listing standards set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we cannot assure you that our shares will continue to be listed on NASDAQ in the future or prior to a Business Combination. In order to continue listing our shares on NASDAQ prior to a Business Combination, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders’ equity ($2,500,000) and a minimum number of public stockholders (300 public holders). In addition, in connection with the completion of a Business Combination, we would be required to again demonstrate compliance with the applicable minimum initial listing standards. On October 8, 2014, we received an inquiry from the NASDAQ Staff relating to whether we satisfied the minimum public holder requirement, and on November 14, 2014, we informed NASDAQ that we do not believe we meet this requirement. On January 13, 2015, NASDAQ granted us until May 13, 2015 to evidence compliance. If the Company is unable to regain compliance prior to the expiration of any extension period granted by the NASDAQ Staff, the Company can appeal the decision to an independent hearings panel. The filing of such an appeal would stay any suspension or delisting action until the conclusion of the hearing process and the expiration of any extension granted by the panel. If NASDAQ suspends or delists our shares from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our shares on another national securities exchange, we expect our shares could be quoted in the over-the-counter market on the OTCQB market tier or the OTC Pink Current Information tier. If this were to occur, we could face material adverse consequences, including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our shares; ·reduced liquidity for our shares; ·a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares; ·a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 