ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as investments in us. Unitholders and potential investors in our common units should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we may be unable to make distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units may decline and you could lose all or a significant part of your investment. The following known material risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Further, the risk factors described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of costs and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3875 per unit, or $1.55 per unit per year. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the volumes of crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals that we handle; • the terminalling, storage, throughput, transloading and ancillary services fees with respect to volumes that we handle; • the market fundamentals surrounding the supply of and demand for crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals in the markets served by our facilities; • pricing differentials in supplying certain geographic markets with crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals; • competition from industry participants in our geographic markets; • damage to pipelines, facilities, rail infrastructure, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions, and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; • planned or unplanned shutdowns of the facilities owned by or supplying our customers; • prevailing economic and market conditions; • the risk of contract non-renewal or failure to perform by our customers, and our ability to replace such contracts and/or customers; • difficulties in collecting our receivables because of credit or financial problems of customers; • the effects of new or expanded health, environmental, and safety regulations; • governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation of the industries in which we operate; • the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative expenses; • changes in tax laws; and • force majeure events. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash we have available for distribution depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level and financing of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in debt agreements to which we are a party; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner. Other additional restrictions and factors may also affect our ability to pay cash distributions. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions in a given period even though we record net income. The amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow from operations, including working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our business would be adversely affected if the operations of our customers experienced significant interruptions. In certain circumstances, the obligations of many of our key customers under their services agreements may be reduced or suspended, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We are dependent upon the uninterrupted operations of certain facilities owned, operated, managed or supplied by our customers, such as the exploration sites, refineries and chemical production facilities. Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned, operated, or supplied by our suppliers and customers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control, such as: • catastrophic events, including hurricanes and floods; • environmental remediation; • labor difficulties; and • disruptions in the supply of products to or from our facilities, including the failure of third-party pipelines or other facilities. Additionally, terrorist attacks and acts of sabotage could target oil and gas production facilities, refineries, processing plants, terminals, and other infrastructure facilities. Our services agreements with many of our key customers provide that if any of a number of events occur, including certain of those events described above, which we refer to as events of force majeure, and such event significantly delays or renders performance impossible with respect to one of our facilities, usually for a specified minimum period of days, our customer’s obligations would be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a significant customer’s minimum storage and throughput fees may be reduced or suspended, even if we are contractually restricted from recontracting out the storage space in question during such force majeure period, or the contract may be subject to termination. There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured against such risks. As a result, any significant interruption at one of our facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities or to or from our customers for any reason would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 16 Table of Contents Our ownership in each of the Baltimore, MD and Spartanburg, SC terminals represents a 50% ownership interest without the right to be the operator of the facilities, giving us limited influence on daily operating decisions. We own a 50% undivided interest in each of the Baltimore, MD and Spartanburg, SC terminals whereby the co-owner and operator, CITGO, operates the terminals pursuant to an operating agreement, and in the future we may acquire interests in other terminals in which we do not serve as operator. In these situations, we are dependent upon the operator to operate the terminals efficiently and in compliance with applicable regulations. If the operator does not operate the terminals in a manner that minimizes operating expenses and prevents service interruptions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. Our ownership in the LNG Facility represents a minority interest in Gulf LNG Holdings and our rights are limited. A decision could be made at Gulf LNG Holdings without requiring our approval and could have a material adverse effect on cash distributions from our LNG Interest. We own a 10.3% interest in Gulf LNG Holdings, while an affiliate of Kinder Morgan owns 50%, an affiliate of GE EFS owns 30% and our Sponsor owns a 9.7% interest. Gulf LNG Holdings indirectly owns the LNG Facility. An affiliate of Kinder Morgan is the manager and operator of the LNG Facility and has the authority to manage and control the affairs of Gulf LNG Holdings. The governing documents relating to Gulf LNG Holdings require a supermajority vote on certain matters including: • the sale of substantially all the assets; • any proposed merger; • incurrence of additional indebtedness not already approved by the existing equity holders; • amendment to the organizational documents; and • the filing of a voluntary petition in bankruptcy. The supermajority vote requires one or more of the members, which, in the aggregate, hold more than 70% of the ownership interests of Gulf LNG Holdings. Due to these provisions and our limited ownership interest, a decision could be made at Gulf LNG Holdings without our approval that could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Gulf LNG Holdings and cash distributions from our LNG Interest. Gulf LNG Holdings has been exploring the development of a liquefaction project adjacent to the LNG Facility. The cash distributions we receive from our LNG Interest could be materially and adversely affected if the majority of the members of Gulf LNG Holdings vote to use the cash received from the LNG Facility to support the liquefaction project as opposed to paying distributions to the members of Gulf LNG Holdings. Our financial results depend on the market fundamentals surrounding the supply of and demand for crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals that we store, throughput and transload, among other factors. The market fundamentals surrounding the supply of and demand for crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals in the markets served by our facilities could result in a significant reduction in storage, throughput or transloading in our facilities, which would reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Factors that could impact market fundamentals include: • lower supply of crude oil due to a decline in drilling activity in the United States and Canada due to a decrease in the market price for crude oil or for other reasons; • pricing differentials in supplying certain geographic markets with crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals; • fluctuations in demand for crude oil, such as those caused by refinery downtime or shutdowns; • lower demand by consumers for petroleum products as a result of recession or other adverse economic conditions or due to higher prices caused by an increase in the market price of crude oil; • the impact of weather on demand for crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals; 17 Table of Contents • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of motor fuels; • an increase in automotive engine fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or technological advances by manufacturers; and • the increased use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, fuel cells, and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. The ability of our LNG Interest to generate cash is substantially dependent upon two terminal use agreements, and we will be materially and adversely affected if either customer fails to perform its contract obligations for any reason. The distributions that we receive from the LNG Interest are dependent on the future financial results of the LNG Facility. The LNG Facility generates revenues on firm contracted capacity from its two customers, ENI USA Gas Marketing L.L.C. and Angola LNG Supply Services, LLC (which is a joint venture of several integrated, multi-national oil and gas companies), each of which has entered into a terminal use agreement with Gulf LNG Holdings and agreed to pay firm reservation and operating fees regardless of whether LNG is delivered, stored or regasified. Our cash distributions from the LNG Interest are dependent upon the LNG Facility and each customer’s willingness to perform its contractual obligations under its respective terminal use agreement. The contractual obligations under the terminal use agreement with ENI USA Gas Marketing are supported by a parent guarantee, and the contractual obligations under the terminal use agreement with Angola LNG Supply Services are supported by parent guarantees from the consortium members that each cover a portion of the obligations thereunder. Each of the terminal use agreements contains various termination rights. For example, each customer may terminate its terminal use agreement as a result of breaches of customary commercial covenants or if the LNG Facility: • experiences a force majeure delay for longer than 18 months; • fails to redeliver a specified amount of natural gas in accordance with the customer’s redelivery nominations; or • fails to accept and unload a specified number of the customer’s proposed LNG cargoes. Gulf LNG Holdings may not be able to replace these terminal use agreements on desirable terms, or at all, if they are terminated. Due to global LNG supply/demand economics, the customers of Gulf LNG Holdings are not shipping LNG to the LNG Facility for storage and regasification services. Due to lower natural gas prices in the United States, the customers have an economic advantage in redirecting LNG vessels to other locations around the world. However, the contractual obligations of the terminal use agreements require the customers to continue paying the firm reservation and operating fees. This dynamic could result in non-performance from the customers to pay the firm reservation and operating fees under the terminal use agreements. While Gulf LNG Holdings would seek recourse under the customers’ parent guarantees, our business, financial conditions and results of operations and our ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. Gulf LNG Holdings is also exposed to the credit risk of each customer’s parent guarantor in the event that Gulf LNG Holdings is required to seek recourse under a customer’s parent guarantee. If either customer or its parent guarantor fails to perform its financial obligations to Gulf LNG Holdings under the terminal use agreement or the parent guarantee, respectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 49% of our revenues. During this period, Center Oil, our largest customer represented approximately 16% of our revenues. Some of our customers may have material financial and liquidity issues or operational incidents. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers and our inability to re-market or otherwise use the affected storage capacity could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flows and our ability to make 18 Table of Contents cash distributions to our unitholders. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. We periodically evaluate whether the carrying values of our terminals may be impaired and could be required to recognize non-cash charges in future periods. Accounting rules require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our terminals as well as any other long-lived assets in the event we have impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated future cash flows of a long-lived asset, the carrying value may not be recoverable and, therefore, would require a write-down. The future cash flow estimates are based on historical results, adjusted to reflect our best estimate of future market and operating conditions. Accordingly, estimated future cash flows for our terminals can be impacted by demand for the petroleum products and crude oil that we store for our customers, volatility and pricing of crude oil and its impact on petroleum products prices, the level of domestic oil production and potential future sources of cash flows. For example, the Buckeye Pipeline, which provided petroleum products through a common carrier pipeline to our Chillicothe, IL terminal, ceased product deliveries during the first quarter of 2013. While the Chillicothe, IL terminal remains capable of receiving petroleum product through other modes, the inability to receive product via the common carrier pipeline has resulted in a strategic reevaluation of the Chillicothe, IL terminal. If we are unable to repurpose the terminal or address the common carrier pipeline issue, we might be forced to take a non-cash, asset impairment charge. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and may impact our ability to borrow funds under our Credit Facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes or floods, for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes or floods, which have historically impacted certain of the East and Gulf Coast regions where our operations are located with some regularity. We may also be affected by factors such as adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures, disruptions in supply infrastructure or logistics, and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations are exposed to other potential natural disasters, including tornadoes, storms, floods and earthquakes. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In addition, sub-limits have been imposed for certain risks. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. The LNG Facility is no longer in a cryogenic state, but remains fully operational to receive, unload and regasify LNG vessels on behalf of its customers. However, because the LNG Facility is no longer in a cryogenic state, the process and timing to receive and unload an LNG vessel could trigger certain provisions in the terminal use agreements, which could adversely affect the profitability of and cash distributions from our LNG Interest. Since October 2012, the storage tanks and other equipment in the LNG Facility have not been in a cryogenic state. While the LNG Facility remains operationally ready to receive and process LNG vessels on behalf of its customers, the current status of the facility could increase the timing requirements to receive and process any LNG vessels as the LNG Facility returns to a cryogenic state. The terminal use agreements include provisions whereby the increased timing to receive and process LNG vessels could trigger demurrage and/or excess boil-off penalties. The amount of any such penalty will vary based upon the commencement of the unloading process, the actual time it takes to unload the vessel as it relates to the allotted unloading time and the size of the LNG vessel. 19 Table of Contents Reduced volatility in energy prices, certain market conditions or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in crude oil, petroleum products or chemicals, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage and throughput services. We have constructed and will continue to construct new facilities in response to increased customer demand for storage and throughput services. Many of our competitors have also built new facilities. The demand for new facilities has resulted in part from our customers’ desire to have the ability to take advantage of profit opportunities created by volatility in the prices of crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals and certain conditions in the futures markets for those commodities. A condition in which future prices of petroleum products and crude oil are higher than the then-current prices, also called market contango, is favorable to commercial strategies that are associated with storage capacity as it allows a party to simultaneously purchase petroleum products or crude oil at current prices for storage and sell at higher prices for future delivery. Wide contango spreads combined with price structure volatility generally have a favorable impact on our results. If the price of petroleum products and crude oil is lower in the future than the then-current price, also called market backwardation, there is little incentive to store these commodities as current prices are above future delivery prices. In either case, margins can be improved when prices are volatile. The periods between these two market structures are referred to as transition periods. If the market is in a backwardated to transitional structure, our results from operations may be less than those generated during the more favorable contango market conditions. If the prices of crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals become relatively stable, or if federal and/or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing those commodities, demand for our storage and throughput services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to renew contracts for our storage and throughput services or be forced to reduce the fees we charge for our services, either of which would reduce the amount of cash we generate. Some of our current services agreements are automatically renewing on a short-term basis and may be terminated at the end of the current renewal term upon requisite notice. If one or more of our current services agreements is terminated and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Some of our services agreements currently in effect are operating in the automatic renewal phase of the contract that begins upon the expiration of the primary contract term. Our services agreements generally have primary contract terms that range from one month up to ten years. Upon expiration of the primary contract term, these agreements renew automatically for successive renewal terms that range from one month to three years unless earlier terminated by either party upon the giving of the requisite notice, generally ranging from two to six months prior to the expiration of the applicable renewal term. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 69% of our revenue was generated pursuant to take-or-pay provisions in our services agreements with a weighted average term remaining of approximately 2.5 years. As of December 31, 2013, 44% of our services agreements were operating under their evergreen portions in the services agreements. If any one or more of our services agreements is terminated and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, we may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall in revenue or increase in costs. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs if modifications to our terminals are required by a new or renegotiated services agreement. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Competition from other terminals that are able to supply our customers with comparable storage capacity at a lower price could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We face competition from other facilities that may be able to supply our customers with integrated services on a more competitive basis, including access to pipeline delivery services in which we have limited connections. We compete with national, regional, and local terminal and storage companies, including major integrated oil companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Our ability to compete could be harmed by factors we cannot control, including: • prices offered by our competitors; • our competitors’ construction of new assets or redeployment of existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve; • the perception that another company may provide better service; and • the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to our customers’ operations. 20 Table of Contents Any combination of these factors could result in our customers utilizing the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services or us being required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A portion of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. The construction of a new facility, or the expansion of an existing facility, such as increasing capacity or otherwise, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects. As a result, we may construct new facilities that are not able to attract enough storage or throughput customers to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, on budget, or at all. Even if we receive sufficient multi-year contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects and we complete our construction projects as planned, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. For example, if we build a new terminal, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth would be limited and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. A portion of our strategy is also dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in our cash available for distribution per unit. If we are unable to make acquisitions because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase agreements, or we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or we are outbid by competitors, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and newly acquired assets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. 21 Table of Contents Revenues we generate from storage and throughput services fees vary based upon the level of activity at our facilities by our customers. Any changes to the market fundamentals surrounding the supply and demand for crude oil, petroleum products or chemicals we handle or any interruptions to the operations of certain of our customers could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A substantial portion of our revenues is based on the throughput activity levels of our customers. The revenues we generate from storage and throughput services fees vary based upon the underlying services agreements and the volumes of products handled at our facilities. Our customers may not be obligated to pay us any storage or throughput services fees unless we move volumes of products across our truck loading racks, marine facilities or rail assets on their behalf. If one or more of our customers were to slow or suspend its operations, have difficulty supplying their products to our terminals, experience a decrease in demand for its products or find a more profitable geographic market to sell its products, our services and revenues under our agreements with such customers would be reduced or suspended, resulting in a decrease in the revenues we generate. Any reduction in the capability of our customers to utilize third-party pipelines and railroads that interconnect with our terminals or to continue utilizing them at current costs could cause a reduction of volumes transported through our terminals. The customers of our facilities are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines and railroads to receive and deliver crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of these interconnecting pipelines or railroads due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes in the case of pipelines, or track repairs, in the case or railroads, could result in reduced volumes transported through our terminals. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volume over interconnecting pipelines or railroads, the allocations to our existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which could reduce volumes transported through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. In addition, if the costs to us or our storage and throughput service customers to access these third-party pipelines or railroads significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. Any such increases in cost, interruptions, or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Many of our facilities have been in service for several decades, which could result in increased maintenance expenditures or remediation projects, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our facilities are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many decades. While we have implemented inspection programs in accordance with the standards set forth by the American Petroleum Institute, the age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance expenditures or remediation projects, such as in the case where we acquire terminal storage assets that have not been maintained to that standard. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which are complex and frequently changing. Our operations involve the storage and throughput of crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals and are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the gathering, storage, handling, and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, management and disposal of wastes, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Compliance with this complex array of federal, state, and local laws and implementing regulations is difficult and may require significant capital expenditures and operating costs to mitigate or prevent an adverse effect on the environment. Moreover, our industry is inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment and neighboring areas, for which we may incur substantial liabilities to investigate and remediate. Failure to comply with applicable environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, permit revocations, and injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. 22 Table of Contents We cannot predict what additional environmental, health, and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. These expenditures or costs for environmental, health, and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs at our facilities. Our terminal facilities have been used for the storage and throughput of crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals for many years. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons and wastes from time to time may have been spilled or released at the terminal properties. In addition, the terminal properties were previously owned and operated by other parties and those parties from time to time also may have spilled or released hydrocarbons or wastes. The terminal properties are subject to federal, state, and local laws that impose investigatory and remedial obligations, some of which are joint and several or strict liability obligations without regard to fault, to address and prevent environmental contamination. We may incur significant costs and liabilities to address soil and groundwater contamination that occurs on our properties, even if the contamination was caused by prior owners and operators of our facilities. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various federal and state laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes or incremental capital investments to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of permits or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for petroleum products as a fuel source, which could in turn reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the crude oil and petroleum products we store and distribute, results in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, and the EPA has begun to regulate GHG emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Many states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives and it is possible that federal legislation could be adopted in the future to restrict GHG emissions. There are many regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHG, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program and regulation by the EPA. Future international, federal, and state initiatives to control carbon dioxide emissions could result in increased costs associated with crude oil and petroleum products consumption, such as costs to install additional controls to reduce carbon dioxide emissions or costs to purchase emissions reduction credits to comply with future emissions trading programs. Such increased costs could result in reduced demand for crude oil and petroleum products and some customers switching to alternative sources of fuel which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, and we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications. Various federal and state agencies prescribe specific product quality specifications for petroleum products, including vapor pressure, sulfur content, ethanol content and biodiesel content. Depending upon the services agreement, changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Violations of product quality laws attributable to our operations could subject us to significant fines and penalties as well as negative publicity. 23 Table of Contents Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower levels of activity at our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the activity and associated revenues from these customers, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in activity would result not only in less revenue but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Restrictions in our Credit Facility agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders as well as the value of our common units. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our Credit Facility agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or expand or pursue our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. For example, our Credit Facility agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: • make cash distributions; • incur indebtedness; • create liens; • make investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • make any material change to the nature of our business; • enter into material leases; • dispose of assets; and • merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Furthermore, our Credit Facility agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. The provisions of our Credit Facility agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing for and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our Credit Facility agreement could result in an event of default which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our Credit Facility agreement, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. 24 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates under our Credit Facility agreement or future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. As of December 31, 2013, we had no derivatives outstanding. Although we have not historically entered into hedging transactions, from time to time we may use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt. In addition, interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or surrounding areas could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline, rail and terminal infrastructure, may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries, or terminals could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our Sponsor owns and controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including our Sponsor, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Our Sponsor, Lightfoot, owns and controls our General Partner and appoints all of the directors of our General Partner. Although our General Partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that it believes is not adverse to our interests, the executive officers and directors of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner beneficial to our Sponsor. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our Sponsor or any of its affiliates, including our General Partner, on the one hand, and us or any of our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including our Sponsor and its owners, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as our Sponsor, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our Sponsor to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our General Partner’s liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; 25 Table of Contents • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether an expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders, which, in turn, may affect the ability of the subordinated units to convert. • our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $12.2 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights; • our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and • our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, our Sponsor, its owners and entities in which they have an interest may compete with us. Please read “—Our Sponsor, its owners and other affiliates of our General Partner may compete with us.” Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. The board of directors of our General Partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay distributions at any time or in any amount. Instead, the board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to distribute quarterly at least $0.3875 per unit on all of our units to the extent we have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of our expenses, including payments to our General Partner and its affiliates. However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all is determined by the board of directors of our General Partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our General Partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of our Sponsor or its affiliates to the detriment of our common unitholders. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our General Partner or its assets. Our General Partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our General Partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our General Partner to limit its liability is not a 26 Table of Contents breach of our General Partner’s duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. It is our policy to distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our partners, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We plan to distribute most of our cash available for distribution, which may cause our growth to proceed at a slower pace than that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include: • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • whether to exercise its call right; • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: • whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was not adverse to the interests of the partnership; • our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages or otherwise to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that such losses or liabilities were the result of conduct in which our General Partner or its officers or directors engaged in bad faith, willful misconduct or fraud or, with respect to any criminal conduct, with knowledge that such conduct was unlawful; and 27 Table of Contents • our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: (1) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (2) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our Sponsor, its owners and other affiliates of our General Partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner is restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our General Partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, affiliates of our General Partner, including our Sponsor and its owners, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Any investments or acquisitions by affiliates of our General Partner, including our Sponsor and its owners, may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. In addition, our Sponsor and its owners may acquire interests in other publicly traded partnerships. Therefore, our Sponsor and its affiliates may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors, our Sponsor and its owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner, including our Sponsor and its owners, and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our General Partner and, following a transfer, a majority of the holders of our incentive distribution rights may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our General Partner has the right, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our General Partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our General Partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. In the event of a reset of target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive the number of common units equal to that number of common units which would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution for the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our General Partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights 28 Table of Contents and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our General Partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our General Partner may transfer all or a portion of the incentive distribution rights in the future. After any such transfer, the holder or holders of a majority of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to exercise the right to reset the target distribution levels. The incentive distribution rights held by our General Partner, or indirectly held by our Sponsor, may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner or our Sponsor may transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our Sponsor transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership interest in our General Partner, our General Partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if our Sponsor had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our Sponsor could reduce the likelihood of our Sponsor accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by it, as it would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by our Sponsor, as a result of it owning our General Partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we do not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our General Partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have limited ability to remove our General Partner. Unitholders are currently unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of December 31, 2013, our Sponsor owns an aggregate of 40.3% of our common and subordinated units. Also, if our General Partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of the subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our General Partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; 29 Table of Contents • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of our Sponsor as the sole member of our General Partner to transfer its membership interests in our General Partner to a third party. After any such transfer, the new member or members of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our General Partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our General Partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. Our General Partner has a call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our General Partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our General Partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our General Partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our General Partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. As of December 31, 2013, our Sponsor owned 40.3% of our common and subordinated units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our Sponsor will own 40.3% of our common units. Our General Partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to permit the General Partner to redeem the units of certain unitholders. Our General Partner may amend our partnership agreement, as it determines necessary or advisable, to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status and/or the nationality, citizenship or other related status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and to permit our General Partner to redeem the units held by any person (i) whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to our customers, (ii) whose nationality, citizenship or related status creates substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of our property and/or (iii) who fails to comply with the procedures established to obtain such proof. The redemption price in the case of such a redemption will be the average of the daily closing prices per unit for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the date set for redemption. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue units ranking senior to the common units. In accordance with Delaware law and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may issue additional partnership interests that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of units of senior rank may (i) reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders; (ii) diminish the relative voting strength of the total common units outstanding as a class; or (iii) subordinate the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation. 30 Table of Contents The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets. As of December 31, 2013, we had 6,867,950 common units and 6,081,081 subordinated units outstanding. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at the end of the subordination period. All of the common and subordinated units that were issued to our Sponsor in connection with our IPO are subject to resale restrictions under a lock-up agreement with the underwriters until May 4, 2014. Each of the lock-up agreements with the underwriters may be waived in the discretion of certain of the underwriters. Sales by holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we have agreed to provide registration rights to our Sponsor. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our General Partner. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our General Partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our General Partner by its affiliates. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will determine the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our General Partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly distributions; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • general economic conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • future sales of our common units; and • the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” 31 Table of Contents Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A General Partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the General Partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a General Partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the General Partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for “emerging growth companies,” including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise or (4) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. We are not currently required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we are required to disclose material changes made to our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014. To comply with the requirements of being a publicly traded partnership, we have implemented and will continue to implement additional internal controls, reporting systems and procedures and have hired and will continue to hire additional accounting, finance and legal staff. These hires may be partnership employees, third party consultants or a combination of both. Furthermore, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2018. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our management team does not have substantial experience managing our business as a stand-alone publicly traded partnership, and if they are unable to manage our business as a publicly traded partnership our business may be affected. Our management team does not have substantial experience managing our business as a publicly traded partnership. Unlike private companies, publicly traded entities are subject to substantial rules and regulations, including rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules governing listed entities on the NYSE. If we are unable to manage and operate our partnership as a publicly traded partnership, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our IPO. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE require publicly traded entities to maintain various corporate governance practices that further increase our costs. Before we are able to make distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay or reserve cash for our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by the costs associated with being a public company. Prior to our IPO, we did not file reports with the SEC. Following our IPO, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We expect these rules and regulations to increase certain of our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. We also incur significant expense with respect to director and officer liability insurance. Because of the limitations in coverage for directors, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board or as executive officers. 33 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe, based upon our current operations, that we will be so treated, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Gulf LNG Holdings may change its business or operations in a way that does not generate qualifying income without our consent. In that event, we would likely elect to hold the LNG Interest in a subsidiary treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders from the assets and operations of the LNG Facility. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In order to maintain our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year must be qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Because we have a minority interest in Gulf LNG Holdings, without our consent, Gulf LNG Holdings may change their existing business or conduct other businesses in the future in a manner that does not generate qualifying income. If we determine such a change is likely or has occurred, we may elect to hold the LNG Interest in a subsidiary treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In such case, this corporate subsidiary would be subject to corporate-level tax on its taxable income at the applicable federal corporate income tax rate, currently 35%, as well as any applicable state income tax rates. Imposition of a corporate level tax would significantly reduce the anticipated cash available for distribution from the Gulf LNG Holdings assets and operations to us and, in turn, would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For a more thorough discussion of the risks related to our minority interest in Gulf LNG, please read “Risks Inherent in Our Business—Our ownership in the LNG Facility represents a minority interest in Gulf LNG Holdings and our rights are limited. A decision could be made at Gulf LNG Holdings without requiring our approval and could have a material adverse effect on cash distributions from our LNG Interest.” The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly-traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly-traded partnerships to 34 Table of Contents be treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. As of December 31, 2013, affiliates of our Sponsor directly and indirectly owned more than 40.3% of the total interests in our capital and profits. Therefore, a transfer by affiliates of our Sponsor of all or a portion of their interests in us, along with transfers by other unitholders, could result in a termination of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than the calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, after our termination we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation and amortization deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. If the Internal Revenue Service contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any Internal Revenue Service contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not 35 Table of Contents agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We own assets and conduct business in several states, each of which currently imposes a personal income tax and also imposes income taxes on corporations and other entities. You may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in these states. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 