Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business: Statements made in this report, the Annual Report on Form 10-K the Annual Report to Stockholders in which this report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, communications to stockholders, press releases, and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are not historical in nature, or that state the Company's or management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "could," "should," "will," "intended," "continue," "believe," "may," "expect," "hope," "anticipate," "goal," "forecast," "plan," "guidance" or "estimate" or the negative of these words, vari ations thereof or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. It is important to note that any such performance and actual results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere herein or in other reports filed with the SEC. Other unforeseen factors not identified herein could also have such an effect. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results, financial condition or business over time. General Governmental Regulations of Financial Reporting: The Company reports information to its stockholders and the general public pursuant to the regulations of various Federal and State Commissions and Agencies. These regulations require conformance by the Company to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, to pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and to accounting and reporting directives issued by the commissions and agencies. The political and regulatory environment in which the Company is operating is dynamic and rapidly changing. Adoption and/or changes in regulations defining accounting procedures or reporting requirements could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. The Company depends upon the financial institutions and capital markets for financing to continue operations and to finance and develop new opportunities. General Governmental Regulation of Gaming: Operations - The Company's approved and proposed gaming management operations are and will be subject to extensive gaming laws and regulations, many of which were recently adopted and have not been the subject of definitive interpretations and are still subject to proposed amendments and regulation. The political and regulatory environment in which the Company is and will be operating, with respect to gaming activities on both non-Indian and Indian land, is dynamic and rapidly changing. Adoption and/or changes in gaming laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Interference with the execution of the steps defined by the gaming laws and regulations by interested third parties, although not included by the regulations, may significantly slow the approval process. Fuel and Energy Costs: Our business depends on use of the aircraft for business transportation, freight transportation, and many special mission applications. Should our customers be unable to purchase fuel and energy and/or be unable to pass on disproportionate costs to their customers, the use of business and military aircraft by our customers may be curtailed. The value of the aircraft related assets would decrease and the revenues related to the aircraft equipment and modifications would decrease. These events could have a material adverse effect on our Company. Key Personnel: The Company's inability to retain key personnel may be critical to the Company's ability to achieve its objectives. Key personnel are particularly important in maintaining relationships with Indian Tribes and with the operations licensed by the FAA. Loss of any such personnel could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Our success depends heavily upon the continued contributions of these key persons, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace, and on our ability to attract and retain experienced professional staff. We entered into an employment agreement with our CEO; however, we do not maintain key person insurance on any of these key persons. If we were to lose the services of these key persons, our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed and we may be forced to cease operations until such time as we could hire suitable replacements. Competition: Increased competition, including the entry of new competitors, the introduction of new products by new and existing competitors, or price competition, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, because of the rapid rate at which the gaming industry has expanded, and continues to expand, the gaming industry may be at risk of market saturation, both as to specific areas and generally. Overbuilding of gaming facilities by others at particular sites chosen by the Company may have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to compete and on the Company's operations. Major Customers: The termination of contracts with major customers or renegotiation of these contracts at less cost-effective terms, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Irregularities in financial accounting procedures, financial reporting requirements and regulatory reporting requirements could cause major customers to become unstable and be unable to complete business transactions which could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Product Development: Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. The Company's aviation business is subject, in part, to regulatory procedures and administration enacted by and/or administered by the FAA. Accordingly, the Company's business may be adversely affected in the event the Company is unable to comply with such regulations relative to its current products and/or if any new products and/or services to be offered by the Company can or may not be formally approved by such agency. Moreover, the Company's proposed new aviation modification products will depend upon the issuance by the FAA of a Supplemental Type Certificate with related parts manufacturing authority and repair station license, the issuance of which no assurances can be given. Adverse Actions: Adverse actions by regulators, customers, competitors and/or professionals engaged to regulate or to serve the Company may cause project delays and excessive administrative costs not controllable by the Company. Administrative Expenditures: Higher service, administrative, additional regulatory requirements, or general expenses occasioned by the need for additional legal, consulting, advertising, marketing, or administrative expenditures may decrease income to be recognized by the Company. Impairment of Intangible Property: We evaluate intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our intangible asset may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business and, or significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our intangible assets related to the JET acquisition. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long-range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value and could result in an impairment charge in a future period. There was no indication of intangible assets impairment for c ontinuing operations as a result of our impairment analysis. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations. Low-Priced Penny Stock: Because our common stock is deemed a low-priced "Penny" stock, an investment in our common stock should be considered high risk and subject to marketability restrictions. Since our common stock is a penny stock, as defined in Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act, it will be more difficult for investors to liquidate their investment even if and when a market develops for the common stock. Until the trading price of the common stock rises above $5.00 per share, if ever, trading in the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules of the Securities Exchange Act specified in rules 15g-1 through 15g-10. Those rules require broker-dealers, before effecting transactions in any penny stock, to: Deliver to the customer, and obtain a written receipt for, a disclosure document; Disclose certain price information about the stock; Disclose the amount of compensation received by the broker-dealer or any associated person of the broker-dealer; Send monthly statements to customers with market and price information about the penny stock; and In some circumstances, approve the purchaser's account under certain standards and deliver written statements to the customer with information specified in the rules. Consequently, the penny stock rules may restrict the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell the common stock and may affect the ability of holders to sell their common stock in the secondary market and the price at which such holders can sell any such securities. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. In addition, some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. This includes, but is not limited to, provisions that: provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent, and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Kansas law K.S.A. 17-12, 101 that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Regulation Under Federal Aviation Administration: Our Avionics and Aircraft Modifications segments are subject to regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"). We manufacture products and parts under FAA Parts Manufacturing Authority (PMA) requiring qualification and traceability of all materials and vendors used by us. We make aircraft modifications pursuant to the authority granted by Supplemental Type Certificates issued by the FAA. We repair aircraft parts pursuant to the authority granted by our FAA Authorized Repair Station. Violation or changes to FAA regulations could be detrimental to our operation in these business segments. Licensing and Regulation under Federal Indian Law: Before commencing gaming operations (Class II or Class III) on Indian Land, we must obtain the approval of various regulatory entities. Gaming on Indian land is extensively regulated by Federal, State, and Tribal governments and authorities. Regulatory changes could limit or otherwise materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted on Indian Land. All aspects of our proposed business operations on Indian Lands are subject to approval, regulation, and oversight by the Bureau of Indian Affairs ("BIA"), the Secretary of the United States Department of the Interior ("Secretary"), and the National Indian Gaming Commission ("NIGC"). Our management of Class III gaming operations is also subject to approval of a Class III Gaming Compact between the Indian Tribe and the respective state. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, whether Federal, State or Tribal, could result in, among other things, the termination of any management agreements which would have a material adverse effect on us. Management agreement terms are also regulated by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act ("IGRA"), which restricts initial terms to five years and management fees to 30% of the net profits of the casino, except in certain circumstances where the term may be extended to seven years and the management fee increased to 40%. Management agreements with Indian Tribes will not be approved by the NIGC unless, among other things, background checks of the directors and officers of the manager and its ten largest holders of capital stock have been satisfactorily completed. We will also be required to comply with background checks as specified in Tribal-State Compacts before we can manage gaming operations on Indian land. Background checks by the NIGC may take up to 180 days and may be extended to 270 days. There can be no assurance that we would continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for our proposed gaming operatio ns on a timely basis, or at all. Licensing and Regulation under State Law: Our present and future stockholders are and will continue to be subject to review by regulatory agencies. Gaming licenses may be required in connection with our proposed management of a State of Kansas owned Lottery Gaming Facility (a casino) and/or a Class III Indian casino on Indian land within the territorial boundaries of the State of Kansas. Our management personnel, Butler National and/or the managing subsidiaries, the key personnel of all entities and if applicable the appropriate Indian Tribe may be required to have gaming licenses for Class III gaming and/or a Lottery Gaming Facility gaming licenses in the respective state prior to conducting operations. The failure of the Company or the key personnel to obtain or retain a license could have a material adverse effect on the Company or on its ability to obtain or retain Class III licenses in other jurisdictions. Each such State Gaming Agency has broad discretion in granting, renewing, and re voking licenses. Obtaining such licenses and approvals will be time consuming and cannot be assured. As a condition to obtaining and maintaining our Oklahoma Class III license or any other Class III license, we must submit detailed financial and other reports to the Indian Tribe and the respective federal and state regulatory Agencies ("the Agency"). Any person owning or acquiring 5% or more of the Common Stock of the Company must be found suitable by one or more of the agencies or the Indian Tribes ("the Interest"). Any Agency has the authority to require a finding of suitability with respect to any stockholder regardless of the percentage of ownership. If found unsuitable by any Agency or the Indian Tribe, the stockholder must offer all of the Ownership Interest in Company stock held by such stockholder to the Company for cash at the current market bid price less a fifteen percent (15%) administrative charge and the Company must purchase such Interest within ten days of the offer. The stockholder is required to pay all costs of investigation with respect to a determination of his/her suitability. In addition, regardless of ownership, each member of the board of directors and certain officers of the Company are subject to a finding of suitability by any Agency and the Indian Tribe. The State of Kansas has approved state owned Lottery Gaming Facilities, pari-mutuel dog and/or horse racing for non-Indian organizations. The State of Kansas operates a state lottery, keno games, and plans to operate state owned Lottery Gaming Facilities for the benefit of the State. The Lottery Gaming Facility management contract approval process requires that any entity or person owning one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the ownership interest of the management company must be found suitable to be an owner by the State of Kansas. Our subsidiary, Butler National Service Corporation, is planned to be the applicant. However, the State of Kansas has the right to require a finding of suitability for any individuals or entity associated with Butler National Corporation as the parent of Butler National Service Corporation. There is no assurance that a Tribal/State Compact between the Tribes and the State of Kansas can be completed. If the Compact is not approved, there could be a material adverse effect on our plans for management of Class III gaming on Indian lands within the territorial boundaries of Kansas. There is no assurance that a Lottery Gaming Facility management contract and/or the required state licenses will be awarded to us. If a Lottery Gaming Facility management contract is not awarded to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our plans to manage a state owned casino in Kansas. The rest of this page intentionally left blank. 