Item 1A. Risk factorsThe risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties.Risks Related to Our Net Losses and IndebtednessWe have a history of net losses.We have incurred net losses since our acquisition on September 16, 2008 of the entity formerly known as CHC Helicopter Corporation, including approximately $116.5 million, $170.9 million and $794.8 million in the last three fiscal years ended April 30, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. Our net losses since September 16, 2008 have resulted from a number of factors, including non-cash impairments of goodwill and other assets totaling $1,475.6 million and interest charges related to substantial leverage incurred to acquire additional helicopters and grow our business. We may continue to incur net losses in the future and our net losses may increase in the future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability, or that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow and liquidity through access to the capital markets to meet our debt and interest obligations as and when they become due.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in our business or our industry and place us at a competitive disadvantage.We are highly leveraged. As of April 30, 2015, our total indebtedness was $1,227.2 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures and working capital, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.If we fail to comply with the covenants or other terms of any agreements governing our indebtedness, our creditors may have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt and, in the case of our secured debt, foreclose upon the collateral securing that debt. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition.In addition, if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:•refinancing or restructuring our debt;•selling assets;•reducing or delaying capital investments; or•seeking to raise additional capital.However, any alternative financing plans that we undertake, if necessary, might not allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, including our obligations under our outstanding senior notes, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.12Table of ContentsFailure to comply with covenants contained in certain of our lease agreements could limit our ability to maintain our leased helicopter fleet and could adversely affect our business.The terms of our helicopter lease agreements contain covenants that impose operating and financial limitations on us. Such lease agreements limit, among other things, our ability to utilize helicopters in certain jurisdictions and/or sublease helicopters, and may contain restrictions upon a change of control. A breach of lease covenants could result in an obligation to repay amounts outstanding under the lease. If such an event occurs, we may not be able to pay all amounts due under the leases or refinance such leases on terms satisfactory to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in prior periods entered into discussions with specific lessors for covenant resets, amendments and waivers when we have been anticipated to fail covenant obligations, and in other instances received financial support from our shareholders to avoid covenant breaches. While we do not currently anticipate any breaches, no assurance can be made that we will not in the future, or that we will be successful in negotiating covenant resets, amendments or waivers, as necessary, or that financial support will be available.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur operations are largely dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry.To varying degrees, activity levels in the oil and gas industry are affected by long-term trends in oil and gas prices. Historically, the prices for oil and gas have been volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:•actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil producing countries to control prices or change production levels;•general economic and political conditions, both worldwide and in the regions in which we operate;•governmental regulation;•the price and availability of alternative fuels;•the policies of various governments regarding the exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves;•advances in exploration, development and production technology; and•the effects of hostilities or instability in oil-producing countries or the regions in which they are located.The extreme volatility in market prices for oil and gas in recent months has adversely effected our business and operations. We cannot predict future oil and gas price movements. Any prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and, to a lesser extent, production activity and, therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, revenue generated by helicopter transportation services for the oil and gas industry was approximately 81% of our total revenues. No assurance can be given that the recent volatility of oil and gas prices will not continue to adversely affect offshore exploration or production operations, or that our operations will not continue to be adversely effected.Additionally, an increase in onshore fracking, which generally does not require use of our helicopter services, could have an adverse effect on our operations. If onshore fracking were to meaningfully increase in the international markets in which we operate, and if it were to drive a meaningful increase in the supply of hydrocarbons available to the markets we serve, it could potentially adversely impact the level of activity in our offshore oil and gas markets and the demand for our helicopter services.13Table of ContentsMany of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and if we are unable to effectively compete, it may result in a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue or profit margins.Many of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and if we are unable to effectively compete, it could result in a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue or profit margins. Contracting for helicopter services is usually done through a competitive bidding process among those having the necessary equipment and resources. Factors that affect competition in our industry include price, reliability, safety, professional reputation, helicopter availability, equipment and quality of service. We compete against a number of helicopter operators including the other major global commercial helicopter operator, and other local and regional operators. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not be successful in capturing a share of our present or potential customer base. In addition, many oil and gas companies and government agencies to which we provide services have the financial ability to perform their own helicopter flying operations in-house should they elect to do so.The main MRO competitors to our Heli-One business are the OEMs of helicopters and helicopter components. As such, our main competitors in this industry are also our main parts suppliers and MRO license providers. A conflict with the OEMs could result in our inability to obtain parts and licenses in a timely manner in required quantities and at competitive prices. In addition, the OEMs hold greater inventory of helicopter components, have more extensive operational experience and significantly greater capital resources. These, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We rely on a limited number of large offshore helicopter support contracts with a limited number of customers. If any of these are terminated early or not renewed, our revenues could decline.We rely on a limited number of large offshore helicopter support contracts with a limited number of customers. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, revenue from Petrobras totaling $264.2 million, Statoil ASA totaling $228.5 million and Royal Dutch Shell plc. totaling $200.5 million were approximately 15%, 13% and 12% of our total revenues respectively. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 65% of our total revenues. Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow for early termination by the customer for convenience, generally without penalty and with limited notice requirements, which, if exercised, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the renewal or current terms of our customer contracts.Operating helicopters involves a degree of inherent risk and we are exposed to the risk of losses from safety incidents.Hazards, such as adverse weather conditions, darkness, collisions and fire are inherent in the provision of helicopter services and can result in personal injury and loss of life, accidents, reduced number of flight hours, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and suspension of operations or grounding of helicopters. For example, on October 22, 2012, one of our EC225 helicopters made a controlled water landing in the North Sea with no injuries to crew or passengers. Given that this was the second such event, the first having occurred to another operator in May 2012, all flights of almost all commercial operators worldwide using the same type of helicopter were subsequently suspended for the duration of a lengthy investigation and subsequent corrective action from the manufacturer. In addition, on August 23, 2013, one of our AS332L2 helicopters was involved in a tragic accident in the North Sea, resulting in four fatalities among the 16 passengers and two crew members on board. The cause of the accident is not yet known and full investigations are ongoing. We voluntarily restricted the use of this model of helicopter worldwide for a limited period in 2013. In addition to any loss of property or liability associated with helicopter crashes, our revenue, profitability and margins would decline to the extent any of our helicopters were voluntarily or mandatorily grounded. While we seek to mitigate the financial impact of such risks and preserve our rights through commercial and other arrangements with all those involved, when available, these mitigation efforts may not be successful or available for all incidents. Our performance, profitability and margins may fluctuate from period to period as a result of such incidents and our mitigation efforts.14Table of ContentsIf we are unable to mitigate potential losses through a robust safety management and insurance coverage program, our financial condition would be jeopardized in the event of a safety or other hazardous incident.We attempt to protect ourselves against potential losses through our safety management system and insurance coverage. However, portions of our insurance coverage are subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, and we do not carry insurance against all types of losses. We cannot ensure that our existing coverage will be sufficient to protect against all losses, that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage in the future or that the premiums will not increase substantially, including potentially, in connection with the AS332L2 accident that occurred in August 2013. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Recent Developments.” Our safety management system may not be effective. In addition, terrorist activity, risk of war, accidents or other events could increase our insurance premiums. Our inability to renew our aviation insurance coverage or the loss, expropriation or confiscation of, or severe damage to, a large number of our helicopters could adversely affect our operations and possibly our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we are not insured for loss of profit, loss of use of our helicopters, business interruption or loss of flight hours. The loss of, or limited availability of, our liability insurance coverage, inadequate coverage from our liability insurance or substantial increases in future premiums could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to maintain standards of acceptable safety performance could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain customers and could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial performance.Our customers consider safety and reliability as the two primary attributes when selecting a provider of helicopter transportation services. If we fail to maintain standards of safety and reliability that are satisfactory to our customers, our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected. Moreover, helicopter crashes or similar disasters of another helicopter operator could impact customer confidence and lead to a reduction in customer contracts or result in the grounding of our helicopters, particularly if such helicopter crash or disaster were due to a safety fault in a type of helicopter used in our fleet. In addition, the loss of any helicopter as a result of an accident could cause significant adverse publicity and the interruption of air services to our customers, which could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial results. Our helicopters have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage.Negative publicity may adversely impact us.Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by us, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or governmental investigations by regulators. Specifically, accidents involving any aircraft operated by us or another operator could cause substantial adverse publicity affecting us specifically or our industry generally and could lead to the perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable.Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs and divert resources. Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on our reputation and the morale of our employees, which could make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our fixed operating expenses and long-term contracts with customers could adversely affect our business under certain circumstances.Our profitability is directly related to demand for our helicopter services. Because of the significant expenses related to helicopter financing, crew wages and benefits, lease costs, insurance and maintenance programs, a substantial portion of our operating expenses are fixed and must be paid even when certain helicopters are not actively servicing customers and thereby generating income. A decrease in our revenues could therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in our earnings, as a substantial portion of our operating expenses would remain unchanged. Similarly, the discontinuation of any rebates, discounts or preferential financing terms offered to us by helicopter manufacturers would have the effect of increasing our fixed expenses, and without a corresponding increase in our revenues, would negatively impact our results of operations. We expect our maintenance costs to increase to a level comparative to normal activity as the EC225 has returned to commercial operations. Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that our costs will be comparable on a period to period basis, particularly when incidents may impact our helicopters.Our long-term helicopter services and Heli-One contracts contain pre-determined price escalation terms and conditions. Although supplier costs and other cost increases are passed through to our customers through rate increases where 15Table of Contentspossible, these escalations may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup increased costs in full. In addition, because many of our contracts are long-term in nature, cost increases may not be adjusted in our contract rates until the contracts are up for renewal. In particular, in our Heli-One business, approximately 34%, 38% and 40% of our third-party Heli-One revenue in the 2013, 2014, and 2015 fiscal years, respectively, was derived from PBH contracts, where the customer pays a ratable monthly charge, typically based on the number of hours flown, for all scheduled and un-scheduled maintenance. It can be difficult to correctly estimate the cost of providing maintenance on a PBH basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to estimate costs accurately or recover increased costs by passing these costs on to our customers. In the event that we are unable to do so, the profitability of our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We depend on a small number of helicopter manufacturers.We contract with only four manufacturers of heavy and medium helicopters: Airbus Helicopters (formerly Eurocopter), Sikorsky, AgustaWestland and Bell. These manufacturers have limited availability of helicopters, particularly heavy helicopters, and we have limited alternative sources of new helicopters. If we are unable to acquire new helicopters, continue operating helicopters already in our fleet, or purchase helicopters in the secondary markets, our business would be harmed.Lead times for delivery of new heavy and medium helicopters are long (currently at least one year and historically as long as two years), and annual production of new heavy and medium helicopters is limited. If any of these helicopter manufacturers faced production delays due to, for example, natural disasters, labor strikes, unavailability of skilled labor or safety issues, we may experience a significant delay in the delivery of previously ordered helicopters. During these periods, we may not be able to obtain additional helicopters with acceptable pricing, delivery dates or other terms. Delivery delays or our inability to obtain acceptable helicopter orders would adversely affect our revenue and profitability and could jeopardize our ability to meet the demands of our customers and execute our strategy. Although we have been able to acquire sufficient helicopters to date, a lack of available helicopters or the failure of our suppliers to deliver helicopters we have ordered on a timely basis could limit our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities or jeopardize our ability to meet the demands of our customers. Additionally, lack of availability of new helicopters could result in an increase in prices for certain types of used helicopters.If any of the helicopter manufacturers we contract with, or the government bodies that regulate them, identify safety issues with helicopter models we currently operate or that we intend to acquire, we may be unable to operate a portion of our fleet or could experience a delay in acquiring new helicopters, both of which would negatively affect our business. For example, in October 2012, one of our EC225 helicopters made a controlled water landing in the North Sea with no injuries to crew or passengers. Almost all flights of all operators using the same type of helicopter were subsequently suspended for the duration of a lengthy investigation and corrective action from the manufacturer. In August 2013, one of our AS332L2 helicopters was involved in an accident in the North Sea, resulting in four fatalities, see “Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Operating helicopters involves a degree of inherent risk and we are exposed to the risk of losses from safety incidents.” The cause of the August 2013 accident is not yet known. Regulatory investigations and political debate are currently in process or planned in the United Kingdom. The AS332L2 and the EC225 are produced by the same manufacturer, and we operate other helicopter types by this manufacturer (as of April 30, 2015, 86 helicopters in total, which total represents approximately 37% of our entire fleet). If it is ever determined that a safety issue exists across one or more model types by the same manufacturer, we may be required to suspend flight operations of a significant and material portion of our fleet.If we are forced to suspend operations of any of our helicopter models, our business, financial condition and results of operations during any period in which flight operations are suspended could be affected.We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for helicopter parts and subcontract services.We rely on a few key vendors for the supply of parts and subcontract services required to maintain our helicopters. Due to high demand, these vendors could experience backlogs in their manufacturing schedules and some parts may be in limited supply from time to time, which could have an adverse impact upon our ability to maintain and repair our helicopters.We currently obtain a substantial portion of our helicopter spare parts and components from helicopter manufacturers and maintain supply arrangements with other key suppliers. To the extent that these suppliers also supply parts for helicopters used by the military or other government organizations, parts delivery for our helicopters may be delayed during periods in which there are high levels of military or government operations. Our inability to perform timely maintenance and repairs can result in our helicopters being underutilized which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our operations in remote locations, where delivery of these components and parts could take 16Table of Contentsa significant period of time, could experience delays in our ability to maintain and repair our helicopters. While every effort is made to mitigate the impact of any such delays, this may pose a risk to our results of operations. We do not have an alternative source of supply for parts and components supplied by the main helicopter manufacturers. Failure or significant delay by these vendors in providing necessary parts could, in the absence of alternative sources of supply, have a material adverse effect on our business, including the withholding of payments by customers in certain cases. Due to our dependence on helicopter manufacturers for helicopter parts and components, we may also be subject to adverse impacts from unusually high price increases that are greater than overall inflationary trends. We might not be able to increase our contract rates. An unusually high increase in the price of parts or components that cannot be fully passed on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Restructurings of our operations and organizational structure may lead to significant costs. We are continually reviewing potential changes in our operations and organizational structure in order to enhance our overall competiveness and viability. Restructuring activities that we have undertaken, and may undertake in the future, can divert significant time and resources, involve substantial costs and may fail to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability as intended, any of which could negatively impact our business. In connection with our current review of our operations and organizational structure with the view towards reducing operating costs, we have recorded $80.3 million in restructuring expenses for the year ended April 30, 2015, mostly comprised of return costs on leased helicopters, employee severance and associated termination costs related to the reduction of our workforce and other termination rights. We may incur additional restructuring expenses in the future. Our restructuring activities have, and may, in the future, trigger restructuring, impairment and other accounting charges and/or result in a loss on sale of assets. Any of these charges or losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also experience labor unions or works’ council objections or labor unrest actions (including possible strikes) when we seek to reduce our workforce in Europe and other regions. Many of our operations are located in countries and regions that have extensive employment regulations that we must comply with in order to reduce our workforce, and we may incur significant costs to complete such reductions. Any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our business requires substantial capital expenditures, lease and working capital financing. Any deterioration of current industry or business conditions or the capital markets generally could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business requires substantial capital expenditures including significant ongoing investment to purchase or lease new helicopters, refinance existing leases and maintain our existing fleet. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from our operations, we may need to raise additional funds through operating lease financing, debt or other financing to execute our strategy and make the capital expenditures required to operate our business successfully. In the event of adverse conditions in our industry, our business or the capital markets generally, we could face difficulties in securing the amounts required, on commercially favorable terms or in a timely manner. In addition, any such additional capital raised may be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders and may result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our ordinary shares.Concerns about a systemic impact of a potential long-term and wide-spread economic recession, increased energy costs, the availability and cost of credit, diminished business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment rates contribute to increased market volatility and diminish expectations for western and emerging economies, including the jurisdictions in which we operate. In particular, the cost of raising money in the credit markets could increase substantially as many lenders and institutional investors, concerned about the stability of the financial markets generally and about the solvency of counterparties, could increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards and reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide funding, to borrowers. In addition, financial market instability could leave our creditors unable to meet their obligations to us.Our ability to access capital and bank markets or the availability of lease or other financings may be restricted at a time when we would like to, or need to access capital. Such inability could have an impact on our plans or on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, our credit facilities and helicopter leases will have maintenance covenants which may need to be renegotiated from time to time, and the financial market instability could have an impact on the lenders’ or lessors’ willingness to renegotiate these covenants on reasonable terms.17Table of ContentsWe rely on the secondary used helicopter market to dispose of our older helicopters and parts due to our ongoing fleet modernization efforts.We are dependent upon the secondary used helicopters and parts market to dispose of older models of helicopters as part of our ongoing fleet modernization efforts and any spare helicopter capacity associated with the termination or non-renewal of existing contracts. If we are unable to dispose of our older helicopters and parts due to a lack of demand in the secondary market, our helicopters and parts carrying costs may increase above requirements for our current operations, or we may accept lower selling prices, resulting in losses on disposition. A failure to dispose of helicopters and parts in the secondary market could impair our ability to operate our fleet efficiently and service existing contracts or win new mandates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We may not be able to obtain customer contracts covering some of our new helicopters and some of our new helicopters may replace existing helicopters already under contract, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet. As of April 30, 2015, we have committed to purchasing 18 new helicopters. Many of our new helicopters may not be covered by customer contracts when they are delivered to us, and we cannot make any assurances as to when we will be able to deploy these aircraft or on what terms. Existing customers may request new helicopters in lieu of our existing helicopters, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet and we may not be able to find alternative profitable uses for helicopters no longer under contract. Our inability to profitability deploy our aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.Our operations are subject to extensive regulations which could increase our costs and adversely affect us.The helicopter industry is regulated by various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The scope of such regulation includes infrastructure and operational issues relating to helicopters, maintenance, spare parts and route flying rights as well as safety and security requirements. We cannot fully anticipate all changes that might be made to the laws and regulations to which we are subject nor the possible impact of such changes. These changes could subject us to additional costs and restrictions.We are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies. Based on regulations in various jurisdictions in which we operate, our authorizations, licenses and certificates may be suspended or revoked and we may lose our ability to operate within these regions if certain levels of local ownership are not maintained.Our ability to conduct our business is dependent on our ability to maintain authorizations, licenses and certificates, which in many jurisdictions require us to subcontract with third-parties to obtain required helicopter operating leases. We are routinely audited to ensure compliance with all flight operation and helicopter maintenance requirements. There can be no assurance that we will pass all such audits. Our failure to pass such audits or any breach of regulations applicable to us could result in fines, adverse publicity or suspension of our helicopters, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, especially if a regulatory breach were to lead to a helicopter crash or accident. Changes in laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our cost of operations or revenues from operations.If we are unable to maintain required government-issued licenses for our operations or if our ownership in our foreign partners exceeds permitted levels, we will be unable to conduct helicopter operations in the applicable jurisdiction, as outlined below.The European Union and the European Economic AreaApproximately 44% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015 originated from helicopter flying services provided by subsidiaries of EHOB, a company 49.9% owned by us. These subsidiaries operate primarily in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland (member states of the European Union, or the EU), and Norway (member state of the EEA). To operate helicopters in the EU and EEA, an operator must be licensed by the applicable national Civil Aviation Authority. Under applicable European law, an operator must be “effectively controlled” and “majority owned” by nationals of member states of the EU or the EEA to maintain its license. We believe that the majority shareholder in EHOB is an EU national and therefore these subsidiaries are currently “majority owned” and “effectively controlled” within the meaning of European Union and European Economic Area licensing requirements. Any change in the national status of the majority shareholder in EHOB could affect the licenses of these subsidiaries.18Table of ContentsCanadaOur helicopter operations in Canada are conducted through CHC Helicopters Canada Inc., a company in which we hold a minority interest. Our flying operations are regulated by Transport Canada and are conducted under that company’s air operator's certificate, or AOC. Our ability to conduct our helicopter operating business in Canada is dependent on our ability to maintain our relationship with CHC Helicopters Canada Inc. Our helicopter operations in certain other countries are conducted pursuant to an AOC issued by the Minister of Transport (Canada) under the provisions of the Aeronautics Act (Canada) for which our wholly owned subsidiary holds pursuant to an exemption until December 2015. If we are unable to extend the ministerial exemption pursuant to which this certificate is issued, we will need to obtain licenses and certificates issued by the countries in which we conduct such operations or reach an agreement with CHC Helicopters Canada Inc. and/or customers in such countries to transfer the operations there to CHC Helicopters Canada Inc. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to extend the ministerial exemption, obtain local licenses and certificates or transfer such operations to CHC Helicopters Canada Inc., either at all or on acceptable terms.AustraliaCivil aviation in Australia is governed by the Civil Aviation Act 1988 and the regulations made thereunder. To operate a helicopter in Australia, it must be registered with the Australian CASA and a Certificate of Airworthiness must be obtained, be valid and be in effect. The operation of a helicopter for a commercial purpose into, out of, or within Australian territory can only be undertaken as authorized by an AOC. Our ability to offer our helicopter transportation services in Australia is dependent on maintaining this certificate. Australia does not have a requirement for ownership or control by Australian nationals.BrazilApproximately 16% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015 originated from helicopter flying services provided by a subsidiary of Brazilian Helicopter Holdings S.A., or BHH, a Brazilian company 60% owned by us. This subsidiary operates in Brazil. To operate helicopters in Brazil, an operator must be licensed by the applicable national Civil Aviation Authority. Under applicable Brazilian law, in order to maintain its license, an operator must be “controlled” by nationals of Brazil and its officers must be Brazilian as well. By “control”, Brazilian aviation legislation refers to holding of at least 80% of operator’s voting shares. We believe that the majority holder of voting shares in BHH is a Brazilian national and therefore this subsidiary is currently “controlled” within the meaning of Brazil licensing requirements. Any change in the national status of the majority shareholder in BHH and/or in the nationality of the officers of this subsidiary could affect the licenses of BHH. Our helicopter operations in Brazil are conducted through BHS - Brazilian Helicopter Services Táxi Aéreo S.A., the above-mentioned subsidiary of BHH. Our flying operations are regulated by the National Agency for Civil Aviation and are conducted under that company’s AOC. Our ability to conduct our helicopter operating business in Brazil is dependent on our ability to maintain such AOC. If we are unable to keep such AOC, we will be prevented from performing flying operations in Brazil.Other Countries and RegulationsOur operations in other jurisdictions are regulated to various degrees by the governments of such jurisdictions and must be conducted in compliance with those regulations and, where applicable, in accordance with our air service licenses and AOC. These regulations may require us to obtain a license to operate in that country, may favor local companies or require operating permits that can only be obtained by locally registered companies and may impose other nationality requirements. In such cases, we partner with local persons, but there is no assurance regarding which foreign governmental regulations may be applicable in the future to our helicopter operations and whether we would be able to comply with them.The revocation of any of the licenses discussed above or the termination of any of the relationships with local parties discussed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our MRO business, Heli-One, could suffer if licenses issued by OEMs and/or governmental authorities are not renewed or we cannot obtain additional licenses.Our MRO business, Heli-One, receives a significant portion of its third-party revenue from activities that require licenses from OEMs and governmental authorities. The Heli-One business may require additional licenses to grow. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain such licenses from OEMs and/or governmental authorities on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, our MRO business could decline if existing licenses are revoked or cannot be renewed upon the expiration of existing terms.19Table of ContentsWe derive significant revenue from non-wholly owned variable interest entities. If we are unable to maintain good relations with the other owners of such non-wholly owned entities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.Local aviation regulations require us to operate through non-wholly owned entities with local shareholders. We conduct many of our international operations through entities in which we have a minority investment or through strategic alliances with foreign partners. We derive significant amounts of revenue from these entities. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015 we derived $1,067.7 million of revenue, representing 62.5% of our total revenue from variable interest entities owned in part by local shareholders. We depend to some extent upon good relations with our local shareholders to ensure profitable operations. These shareholders may have interests that are not always aligned with ours and they are not generally required to provide any funding that these entities may require. Furthermore, certain shareholders’ agreements with local shareholders contain call arrangements which allow the local shareholder to elect to purchase our shares and/or require us to bear all of the losses of these entities. The calls are exercisable in certain circumstances, including liquidation and events of default. In the event shareholder disputes arise or we lose our interest in these entities and/or find other local partners, this could negatively impact our revenues and profit sharing from these entities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our operations may suffer due to political and economic uncertainty.Risks associated with some of our operations include political, social and economic instability, war, terrorism, civil disturbances, pandemic health issues or other events that may limit or disrupt markets, expropriation without fair compensation, requirements to award contracts, concessions or licenses to nationals, international exchange restrictions and currency fluctuations, changing political conditions and monetary policies of foreign governments. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers. Certain of our helicopter leases and loan agreements impose limitations on our ability, including requiring the prior approval of the lessor or the lender, to locate particular helicopters in certain countries. We cannot provide assurance that these limitations will not affect our ability to allocate resources in the future to meet our operational needs.Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increases the compliance risks associated with our international activities.Our international operations could expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties at their disposal to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trading sanctions laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other federal statutes. Under trading sanctions laws, the government may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and could subject us to fines, penalties and other sanctions. If any of the risks described above were to materialize, they could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.These laws also prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with government entities and have contracts in countries known to experience corruption. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or associates that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. Our existing safeguards and procedures might prove to be less than fully effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or associates might engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we could be subject to other liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition, from time to time, we and our subsidiaries are subject to investigation by various government agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In 2006, we voluntarily disclosed to the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control, or the OFAC, that one or more of our subsidiaries, formerly operating as Schreiner Airways might have violated applicable U.S. laws and regulations by re-exporting to Iran, Sudan, and Libya certain helicopters, related parts, map data, operation and maintenance manuals, and helicopter parts for third-party customers. On April 30, 2015, the five year statute of limitations expired on the last such transaction that was disclosed to OFAC. Having not been notified by OFAC or any other agency of the U.S. Government of the intent to pursue any action, the Company now considers the matter closed. 20Table of ContentsWe are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that could have an adverse impact on our business.We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations and ordinances relating to pollution and protection of the environment and to human health and safety, including those relating to discharge of noise, emissions to the air, releases or discharges to soil or water, the use, storage and disposal of petroleum and other regulated materials and the remediation of contaminated sites.Our operations, including helicopter maintenance and helicopter fueling, involve the use, handling, storage and disposal of materials that may be classified as hazardous to human health and safety and to the environment. Laws protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may, in certain circumstances, impose liability for the investigation and cleanup of releases of regulated materials and related environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault. These laws also might expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others such as historic spills of regulated materials at our facilities, for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed, and for contamination at third-party sites where substances were sent for off-site treatment or disposal. Additionally, any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety or planning laws and regulations could result in governmental authorities or other third parties taking action against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the:•issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;•denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;•imposition of limitations on our operations; and•performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.In addition, changes in laws or regulations protecting the environment may result in changes in the regulation of the offshore oil and gas industry, which in turn could adversely affect us. We cannot predict the likelihood of change to any of these laws or in their enforcement or the impact that any such change, or any discovery of previously unknown conditions, could have on our costs and financial position.We are subject to many different forms of taxation in various jurisdictions throughout the world, which could lead to disagreements with tax authorities regarding the application of tax laws.We are subject to many different forms of taxation including, but not limited to, income tax, withholding tax, commodity tax and payroll-related taxes. Tax law and administration is extremely complex and often requires us to make subjective determinations. The tax authorities in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business might not agree with the determinations that are made by us with respect to the application of tax law. Such disagreements could result in lengthy legal disputes and, ultimately, in the payment of substantial funds to the government authorities of foreign and local jurisdictions where we carry on business or provide goods or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our estimate of tax related assets, liabilities, recoveries and expenses incorporates significant assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the tax laws in various jurisdictions, the effect of tax treaties between jurisdictions, taxable income projections, and the benefits of various restructuring plans. To the extent that such assumptions differ from actual results, we may have to record additional income tax expenses and liabilities.The offshore helicopter services industry is cyclical. The offshore helicopter services industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels. There have been, and may continue to be, periods of high demand for our services followed by periods of low demand for our services. Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our offshore services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and could result in our aircraft being idle or underutilized for prolonged periods.We are exposed to foreign currency risks.Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses are denominated in currencies consisting primarily of British pound sterling, Canadian dollars, Norwegian Kroner, Australian dollars and the Euro, which have experienced significant volatility and change in recent quarters. The 21Table of Contentsfunctional currencies of many of our subsidiaries are non-U.S. currencies. There can be no assurances that our foreign currency risk management strategies will be effective and that continued foreign currency fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See further discussion on foreign currency risks and controls under "Item 7A. Foreign Currency Risks” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our failure to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates effectively could unfavorably affect our financial performance.We currently utilize derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates. These instruments may involve elements of market risk in excess of the amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Further, our financial results from operations of our subsidiaries which incur revenue and operating expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars may be negatively affected if we fail to execute or if we improperly hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations.We are exposed to credit risks.We are exposed to credit risk on our financial investments which depends on the ability of our counterparties to fulfill their obligations to us. We manage credit risk by entering into arrangements with established counterparties and through the establishment of credit policies and limits, which are applied in the selection of counterparties.Credit risk on financial instruments arises from the potential for counterparties to default on their contractual obligations and is limited to those contracts on which we would incur a loss in replacing the instrument. We limit our credit risk by dealing only with counterparties that possess investment grade credit ratings and monitor our concentration risk with counterparties on an ongoing basis. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure for financial assets.Credit risk arises on our trade receivables from the unexpected loss in cash and earnings when a customer cannot meet its obligation to us or when the value of security provided declines. To mitigate trade credit risk, we have developed credit policies that include the review, approval and monitoring of new customers, credit evaluations and credit limits. There can be no assurance that our risk mitigation strategies will be effective and that credit risk will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our customers may seek to shift risk to us.We give to and receive from our customers indemnities relating to damages caused or sustained by us in connection with our operations. Our customers’ changing views on risk allocation could cause us to accept greater risk to win new business or could result in us losing business if we are not prepared to take such risks. To the extent that we accept such additional risk, and seek to insure against it, our insurance premiums could rise.Our customers are primarily in the oil and gas industry and, as a result, changes in economic and industry conditions could expose us to additional credit risk.The majority of our customers are engaged in oil and gas production, exploration and development. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, revenue generated by helicopter transportation services from oil and gas customers represented approximately 81% of our total revenues. This concentration could impact the overall exposure to credit risk because changes in economic and industry conditions that adversely affect the oil and gas industry could affect the majority of our customers. We generally do not require letters of credit or other collateral to support our trade receivables. Accordingly, a sudden or protracted downturn in the economic condition of the oil and gas industry could adversely impact our ability to collect our receivables and thus impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are highly dependent upon the level of activity in the North Sea, which is a mature exploration and production region.For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, approximately 52% of our total revenue was derived from services provided to customers operating in the North Sea. The North Sea is a mature exploration and production region that has undergone substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and gas properties in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. Generally, the production from these drilled oil and gas properties is declining. In the future, production could decline to the point that such properties are no longer economical to operate, in which case, our services with respect to such properties will no longer be needed. Oil and gas companies might not identify sufficient additional drilling sites to replace those that become 22Table of Contentsdepleted or cease to be economically viable. If activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in the North Sea materially declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot predict the levels of activity in this or any other geographic area.If oil and gas companies undertake cost reduction methods, there may be an adverse effect on our business.Oil and gas companies engaged in the production, exploration and development sector continually seek to implement measures aimed at reducing costs, including the cost of helicopter support operations. For example, oil and gas companies in some circumstances have reduced manning levels on both old and new platforms, rigs and other installations by using new technology to permit unmanned operations, which could increase the length of offshore shifts and reduce the frequency of transportation of employees. The implementation of such measures could reduce the demand for helicopter transportation services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Reductions in spending on helicopter services by government agencies could lead to modifications of SAR and EMS contract terms or delays in receiving payments, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.We receive significant revenue from government agencies in the Republic of Ireland, the United Kingdom and Australia. Any reductions in the budgets of government agencies for spending on helicopter services, implementations of cost savings measures by government agencies, imposed modifications of contract term or delays in collecting receivables owed to us by our government agency customers or loss of contracts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, there are inherent risks in contracting with government agencies. Applicable laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate may enable our government agency customers to (i) terminate contracts for convenience, (ii) reduce, modify or cancel contracts or subcontracts if requirements or budgetary constraints change and/or (iii) terminate contracts or adjust their terms.Failure to develop or implement new technologies and disruption to our systems could affect our results of operations.Many of the helicopters we operate are characterized by changing technology, introductions and enhancements of models of helicopters and services and shifting customer demands, including technology preferences. Our future long-term growth and financial performance will depend in part upon our ability to develop market and integrate new services and to accommodate the latest technological advances and customer preferences. In addition, the introduction of new technologies or services that compete with our services could result in our revenues decreasing over time. If we are unable to upgrade our operations or fleet with the latest technological advances in a timely manner, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Any disruption to computers, communication systems or other technical equipment used by us and our fleet could significantly impair our ability to operate our business efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We rely on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be negatively affected.We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information; to coordinate our business across our global operation bases; and to communicate within our Company and with customers, suppliers, partners and other third-parties. These information technology systems, including the system at our global operations center in Irving, Texas are aging and may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns, hardware or software failures, power outages, computer viruses, cyber attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors, lack of support or catastrophic events and we may experience such damages, interruptions, malfunctions or security breaches in the future. Our systems may also be older generations of software which are unable to perform as effectively as, and fail to communicate well with, newer systems. As the development and implementation of our information technology systems continue, we may elect to modify, replace or discontinue certain technology initiatives, which would result in write-downs.Our information technology systems are becoming increasingly integrated on a global basis, so damages, interruptions, malfunctions or security breaches could result in a more widespread impact. If our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the ability of management to align and optimize technology to implement business strategies. 23Table of ContentsIn addition, cyber attacks could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information, and data loss and corruption. There is no assurance that we will not experience these service interruptions or cyber attacks in the future. Additionally, as the frequency, scope and sophistication of cyber attacks continue to grow, we may need to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber attacks. A security breach might also lead to potential claims from third parties or employees.Assimilating any future material acquisitions into our company may strain our resources and have an adverse effect on our business.The assimilation of any future material acquisitions we may make will require substantial time, effort, attention and dedication of management resources and may distract management from ordinary operations. The transition process could create a number of potential challenges and adverse consequences, including the possible unexpected loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, a possible loss of revenues or an increase in operating or other costs. Inefficiencies and difficulties may arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the business associated with them, new geographic areas and new regulatory systems. These types of challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage the combined operations and assets or realize any of the anticipated benefits of future material acquisitions.The loss of key personnel could affect our growth and future success.Loss of the services of key management personnel at our corporate and regional headquarters without being able to attract personnel of equal ability could have a material adverse effect upon us. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, retain, and properly motivate the members of our senior management team and other key employees, or to find suitable replacements for them in the event of death, ill health, or their desire to pursue other professional opportunities, could have a negative effect on our operating results.Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, technicians and other highly-trained personnel is an important factor in determining our future success. The market for these experienced and highly trained personnel is competitive and may become more competitive. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such personnel in the future. If qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain in our industry for compensation-related or other reasons, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain necessary key personnel. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Labor problems could adversely affect us.Certain of our employees in the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Brazil, Canada and Australia (collectively, approximately 67% of our employees as of April 30, 2015) are represented under collective bargaining or union agreements. Any disputes over the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with the unions that represent our employees could result in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. Periodically, certain groups of our employees who are not covered under a collective bargaining agreement consider entering into such an agreement.If our unionized workers engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees elect to become unionized, existing labor agreements are renegotiated, or future labor agreements contain terms that are unfavorable to us, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.If the assets in our defined benefit pension plans are not sufficient to meet the plans’ obligations, we could be required to make substantial cash contributions and our liquidity could be adversely affected.We sponsor funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans for our employees principally in Canada, the United Kingdom and Norway. As of April 30, 2015, there was a $105.8 million funding deficit related to our various defined benefit pension plans which require ongoing funding by us.Our estimate of liabilities and expenses for pensions incorporates significant assumptions, including the interest rate used to discount future liabilities and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Our pension contributions and expenses, results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be materially adversely affected by market returns that are less than the plans’ expected long-term rates of return, a decline in the rate used to discount future 24Table of Contentsliabilities and changes in the currency exchange rates. If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve expected investment returns for a fiscal year, such deficiency may result in increases in pension expense. Changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make substantial cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes and adversely affecting our liquidity.Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business.Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business operations or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters.On August 11, 2014, CASA gave notice that it was canceling the exemption for our Fatigue Risk Management System (“FRMS”). Although this is not a challenge to our AOC, if the cancellation were allowed to go into effect, it would reduce the number of hours our pilots could be rostered for duty in Australia. We believe that CASA's action is unwarranted and does not comply with law. On August 18, 2014, we filed a judicial action seeking to enjoin CASA from canceling our exemption. At a hearing on the merits on November 10, 2014, CASA conceded to our requested relief. We continue to work with CASA to ensure our operations remain compliant with all safety regulations. In the event we are or become treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.In the event we are or become a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined below) of our shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. These consequences include the following: (i) if our shares are “marketable stock” for purposes of the PFIC rules and a U.S. Holder makes a mark-to-market election with respect to its shares, the U.S. Holder will be required to include annually in its U.S. federal taxable income an amount reflecting any year-end increase in the value of its shares, (ii) if a U.S. Holder does not make a mark-to-market election, it may incur significant additional U.S. federal income taxes on income resulting from certain distributions on, or any gain from the disposition of, our shares, as such income generally would be allocated over the U.S. Holder’s holding period for its shares and subject to tax at the highest rates of U.S. federal income taxation in effect for such years, with an interest charge then imposed on the deferral of the resulting taxes with respect to such income, and (iii) dividends paid by us would not be eligible for reduced individual rates of U.S. federal income taxation in any year in which we are treated as a PFIC and in any year immediately following a year in which we are treated as a PFIC. In addition, U.S. Holders that own an interest in a PFIC are required to file additional U.S. federal tax information returns under guidance that has yet to be finalized. A U.S. Holder may not make a mark-to-market election with respect to any of our subsidiaries that are PFICs to mitigate the adverse tax consequences applicable under the PFIC rules attributable to any such subsidiary.The classification of our gross operating income as income from services, which should not be considered passive income for purposes of the PFIC income test, or rents, which could be passive income for that purpose, is a facts and circumstances determination that takes into consideration many factors and the weight that should be given to each factor and is currently subject to significant uncertainty under the U.S. federal income tax law. We believe that our gross operating income should be classified principally as income from services and not from rents, and that, accordingly, we should not be a PFIC under the PFIC income test. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will agree with our conclusion and that the IRS would not successfully challenge our position. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we are not currently a PFIC and that we will not be a PFIC in the future under the PFIC income test.The term “U.S. Holder” means a beneficial owner of shares that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (1) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, (2) a corporation (or entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof, or the District of Columbia, (3) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source or (4) a trust (x) with respect to which a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all of its substantial decisions or (y) that has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury regulations to be treated as a domestic trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes.25Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Ownership StructureWe are controlled by a shareholder group, which might have interests that conflict with ours or the interests of our other shareholders.As of April 30, 2015, CD&R and First Reserve (the "Major Investors") hold securities representing approximately 49.9% (without taking into account any preferred shares issued or to be issued in respect of amounts accrued as preferred dividends) and 28.1%, respectively, of the voting power of all of our shareholders (subject to certain adjustments, if any). CD&R and First Reserve also have the ability to appoint a majority of our directors and have entered into a voting agreement relating to the election of directors. As a result, the Major Investors (and their assignees) have the ability to determine matters requiring shareholder approval, including without limitation, the election and removal of directors, and business combinations, changes of control and sales of all or substantially all of our assets.Circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Major Investors could be in conflict with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. For example, First Reserve and CD&R are both in the business of making investments in companies and might from time to time in the future acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or that are suppliers or customers of ours. Further, if First Reserve or CD&R pursue such acquisitions or make further investments in our industry, those acquisitions and investment opportunities might not be available to us. So long as the Major Investors continue to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Major Investors, as a group, will continue to be able to influence our decisions. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares.We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.Funds affiliated with the Major Investors, as a group, beneficially own a majority of the voting power of our ordinary shares eligible to vote in the election of our directors. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that, within one year of the date of the listing of our ordinary shares:•our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors,” as defined under the rules of the NYSE;•our compensation committee be comprised entirely of independent directors; and•our nominating and corporate governance committee be comprised entirely of independent directors.A majority of the directors on our board of directors are not independent. In addition, the compensation committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee of our board of directors do not consist entirely of independent directors and the members of these committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. However, we do have an audit committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors. Finally, we have a classified board with our directors divided into three classes and serving staggered three year terms.Risks Related to the Ownership of Our SharesThe market for our ordinary shares historically has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.The market for our ordinary shares historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. Generally, the fluctuations experienced by the broader stock market have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate substantially. If the market price of our ordinary shares fails to meet any of the NYSE’s listing standards, including if the average closing price of our ordinary shares trades less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days or more, we may be 26Table of Contentssubject to delisting procedures. In anticipation, or as a cure of any such deficiency, we may in the future have to effect a reverse stock split of our ordinary shares. A delisting of our common stock or a reverse stock split could negatively impact us by further reducing the liquidity of our ordinary shares, or by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our ordinary shares, which could negatively impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, we would need the approval of our shareholders to implement a reverse stock split, and there can be no assurances that our shareholders would approve such a reverse stock split.We have not paid dividends on our ordinary shares historically and may not pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future.We have not paid cash dividends historically, nor do we expect to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Our preferred shares are entitled to receive cumulative dividends and are also entitled to participate equally and ratably in all dividends on our ordinary shares.Pursuant to the terms of the preferred shares issued in the Private Placement, which rank senior to our ordinary shares, we are required to pay regular cash dividends or issue shares in respect of amounts accrued as dividends on the preferred shares, and we may be required under certain circumstances to repurchase the preferred shares; such obligations could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.The preferred shares issued in the Private Placement have different dividend rights than our ordinary shares. Holders of preferred shares are entitled to participate ratably in all dividends paid on ordinary shares and, in addition, receive cumulative dividends payable quarterly at a rate of 8.5% per annum. The preferred dividends are payable in cash or satisfied by the issuance of preferred shares to the holders of preferred shares in lieu of cash quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on the first such quarterly date following the issuance of the preferred shares. We will issue preferred shares in respect of amounts of preferred dividends accruing up to November 12, 2016, the second anniversary of the second closing, and amounts of preferred dividends accruing after such anniversary will be either paid in cash or we will issue preferred shares in lieu of cash to the holders of preferred shares at our option, subject to certain conditions. If we fail to make timely dividends or in certain other circumstances, the dividend rate will increase to 11.5% per annum until such time as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full. In addition, the holders of our preferred shares have certain redemption rights, including upon certain change in control events involving us, which, if exercised, could require us to repurchase all of the outstanding preferred shares at the original purchase price of the preferred shares plus all accrued but unpaid dividends. Our obligations to pay regular dividends to the holders of preferred shares or any required repurchase of the outstanding preferred shares could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of preferred shares could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.We may seek additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of our outstanding ordinary shares and may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.Although we have recently completed the Private Placement to raise a significant amount of capital, in the current economic environment we believe it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and better position ourselves to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of ordinary shares or preferred shares. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding ordinary shares and may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.The issuance of preferred shares in the Private Placement and the issuance of additional preferred shares in lieu of preferred dividends in cash will reduce the relative voting power of holders of our ordinary shares, will dilute the ownership of such holders, and may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.As of April 30, 2015, we had 81,521,943 ordinary shares outstanding, including unvested restricted shares, and obligations to issue an additional 10,179,173 ordinary shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and other securities exercisable or convertible into our ordinary shares. As of April 30, 2015, CD&R holds shares representing approximately 50.1% of our ordinary shares on an as-converted basis without taking into account any preferred shares to be issued in respect of amounts accrued as preferred dividends. CD&R and our other holders of preferred shares also have priority over the holders of our ordinary shares with respect to the distribution of our assets in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and will receive consideration per share potentially in excess of that received by holders of our ordinary shares in the event of a change of control.27Table of ContentsIn addition, conversion of the preferred shares to our ordinary shares will dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our ordinary shares, and any sales in the public market of the ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the preferred shares could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. The dividends on the preferred shares will increase net loss per ordinary share.We have issued $600.0 million of preferred shares, excluding $17.0 million of preferred shares issued through dividends-in-kind during fiscal 2015. Dividends are paid as accrued in accordance with the terms of the Rights and Restrictions of the Convertible Preferred Shares of CHC Group Ltd. Establishing the Terms of the Convertible Preferred Shares. The dividends paid on the preferred shares will increase our net loss per ordinary share.Our preferred shares have rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to the rights of, holders of our ordinary shares. Such preferential rights could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our preferred shares differing from those of the holders of our ordinary shares.Holders of preferred shares have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to shareholders, before any payment may be made to holders of ordinary shares, an amount equal to the greater of (a) the liquidation value and (b) the amount that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon our liquidation, dissolution and winding up if all outstanding preferred shares had been converted into ordinary shares immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.In addition, dividends on the preferred shares accrue and are cumulative, whether or not declared by our board of directors, at the rate of 8.5% per annum on the sum of the original issue price plus all unpaid accrued and accumulated dividends thereon. These preferred dividends are payable in cash or we will issue preferred shares to the holders of preferred shares in lieu of cash quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on the first such quarterly date following the issuance of the preferred shares. With respect to the preferred dividends accruing up to November 12, 2016, the second anniversary of the second closing, we will issue preferred shares in lieu of paying a dividend in cash, and amounts of preferred dividends accruing after such anniversary will be either paid in cash or we will issue preferred shares in lieu of cash to the holders of preferred shares at our option, subject to certain conditions. If we fail to make timely dividends or in certain other circumstances, the dividend rate will increase to 11.5% per annum until such time as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full or preferred shares have been issued in lieu thereof. Moreover, if we declare or pay a cash dividend on our ordinary shares, we will be required to declare and pay a dividend on the outstanding preferred shares on a pro rata basis with the ordinary shares determined on an as-converted basis. The holders of our preferred shares are also able to require the redemption of all or any of their preferred shares upon our change of control at a purchase price equal to the liquidation value of such preferred shares.Holders of preferred shares have the right to vote at all shareholders meetings together with, and as part of one class with, the ordinary shares (on an as-converted basis), provided, however, that the preferred shares of any one holder and its affiliates (together with any votes of such holder and its affiliates in respect of any previously issued ordinary shares upon conversion of preferred shares) do not represent more than 49.9% of the total number of votes. In addition, the prior written consent of the holders of a majority of the preferred shares is required to, among other things, (i) create, or issue additional, equity or convertible securities other than voting or non-voting ordinary shares or (ii) enter into a debt agreement restricting the payment of dividends or a distribution by the issuance of preferred shares or the conversion of preferred shares into ordinary shares.Our obligations to pay the preferred dividends and other dividends to the holders of our preferred shares on a pro-rata basis with the ordinary shares, and to repurchase any and all of the outstanding preferred shares under certain circumstances, could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of preferred shares could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of our preferred shares and those of our ordinary shares.There may be sales of a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, and these sales could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fall. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, including by us, First Reserve, CD&R or other shareholders, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future.28Table of ContentsPursuant to the terms of the Private Placement, we have issued to CD&R preferred shares convertible into a large number of ordinary shares and CD&R has certain registration rights with respect to the ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the preferred shares and certain preferred shares held by it. The registration rights for CD&R would allow CD&R to sell its shares without compliance with the volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. We are a holding company and, accordingly, are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends.We are a holding company and have no business operations of our own. We have no independent means of generating revenue. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to pay our expenses and to pay any cash dividends. There can be no assurance that our subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash flow to dividend or distribute funds to us or that applicable laws, their operating documents and contractual restrictions, including negative covenants in our or their debt instruments, will permit such dividends or distributions. Our debt instruments currently restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us.The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management.As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. We will be implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred and expect to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and, among other things, additional directors' and officers’ liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses.Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and ordinary share price.If we are not able to complete our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting accordance with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm might not be able to certify as to their adequacy.Matters affecting our internal control might cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules, which could result in a breach of the covenants under our financing arrangements. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our ordinary shares, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock or our competitors’ stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.29Table of ContentsOur actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance and investor expectations, which could cause our share price to decline.From time to time, we may release guidance in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance, which will include forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The principal reason that we expect to release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. With or without our guidance, analysts and other investors may publish expectations regarding our business, financial performance and results of operations. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third persons.Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual results. If our actual performance does not meet or exceed our guidance or investor expectations, the trading price of our ordinary shares is likely to decline.Provisions of our articles of association and Cayman Islands corporate law may discourage or prevent an acquisition of us which could adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares.Provisions of our memorandum and articles of association, as amended (or our articles of association), and Cayman Islands law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our articles of association contain provisions that:•permit our board of directors to issue, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, preferred shares in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series; and•provide for our board of directors to be a classified board.The foregoing provisions may impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders.Our organizational documents contain a variety of anti-takeover provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control.Various provisions of our organizational documents and Cayman Islands law may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us that is not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include:•a classified board of directors;•a requirement that annual general meetings of shareholders be called by only a majority of the board of directors or by the Chairman of the board of directors or in the case of extraordinary general meetings, by a majority of the board of directors, by the Chairman of the board of directors or by shareholders holding not less than a majority of our shares then outstanding;•a requirement that shareholder proposals and nominations will be considered only at an extraordinary general meeting convened for such purpose; and•the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred shares with such terms as the board of directors may determine.Shareholder rights under Cayman Islands law may differ materially from shareholder rights in the United States, which could adversely affect the ability of us and our shareholders to protect our and their interests.We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, by the Companies Law (as revised) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited 30Table of Contentsjudicial precedent in the Cayman Islands, as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. In particular, some jurisdictions, such as the state of Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate laws. Moreover, there are certain types of corporate transactions which may be carried out under the laws of the Cayman Islands pursuant to which dissenting shareholders would not have automatic statutory rights comparable to appraisal rights that might otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of certain U.S. corporations. Historically, there have not been any reported instances of class actions having been successfully brought before the Cayman Islands courts. Such actions are ordinarily available in respect of U.S. corporations in U.S. courts. Finally, Cayman Islands companies might not have standing to initiate shareholder derivative actions before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders could face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against our management, directors or controlling shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests may be limited if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court.As a shareholder, you might have difficulty obtaining or enforcing a judgment against us because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands.Because we are a Cayman Islands company, there is uncertainty as to whether the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.Our Major Investors may compete with us, and our articles of association contain a provision that expressly permits our non-employee directors to compete with us.First Reserve and/or CD&R may compete with us for investments in our business. There is no assurance that any conflicts of interest created by such competition will be resolved in our favor. Moreover, First Reserve and CD&R are both in the business of making investments in companies and might acquire or hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our articles of association provide that, to the maximum extent permitted from time to time by Cayman Islands law, we renounce any interest or expectancy that we have in, or any right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunities that are from time to time presented to our directors or their affiliates, other than to those directors who are employed by us or our subsidiaries, unless the business opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as a director of the Company, and none of First Reserve or its affiliates, or any director who is not employed by us or any of his or her affiliates, will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we or our affiliates engage or propose to engage or to refrain from otherwise competing with us or our affiliates. First Reserve and/or CD&R also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities might not be available to us.Our articles of association also provide that any director, officer, committee member or agent of both the Company and a member of First Reserve and its affiliates (or an Identified Person), First Reserve or any non-employee director taking, developing, offering or transferring to another person or entity, any potential transaction, business or investment opportunity that has been renounced by the Company shall not constitute an act or omission committed in bad faith or as the result of active or deliberate dishonesty, and any benefit received, directly or indirectly, by First Reserve, an Identified Person or any non-employee director as the result of any such potential transaction, business or investment opportunity shall not constitute receipt of an improper benefit, or an improper personal benefit, in money, property, services or otherwise.Our articles of association provide that, to the maximum extent permitted from time to time by Cayman Islands law, each of our non-employee directors (including those designated by First Reserve and CD&R) may:•acquire, hold and dispose of ordinary shares for his or her own account or for the account of others, and exercise all of the rights of a shareholder to the same extent and in the same manner as if he or she were not our director; and•in his or her personal capacity or in his or her capacity as a director, officer, trustee, shareholder, partner, member, equity owner, manager, advisor or employee of any other person, have business interests and engage in business activities that are similar to ours, compete with us or involve a business opportunity that we could seize and develop.Our articles of association also provide that, to the maximum extent permitted from time to time by Cayman Islands law, in the event that First Reserve or any non-employee director acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or other business opportunity, such person will have no duty to communicate or offer such transaction or business opportunity to us or any of our affiliates and may take any such opportunity for itself, himself or herself or offer it to another person or entity unless 31Table of Contentsthe business opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as our director. These provisions may limit our ability to pursue business or investment opportunities that we might otherwise have had the opportunity to pursue, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our cash flow, the per share trading price of our ordinary shares and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.Item 1B. Unresolved staff commentsNone. 