ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report, before making a decision to invest in shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Needs We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future. We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that a product candidate will fail to gain regulatory approval or become commercially viable. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date, and we continue to incur significant research, development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we 38 Table of Contents are not profitable and have incurred losses in each period since our inception in 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we reported a net loss of $20.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates, and begin to commercialize any approved products. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues. If any of our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if approved, fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. We currently generate no revenue from the sale of products and may never become profitable. To date, we have not generated any revenues from Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, our clinical-stage product candidates and have generated $2.0 million in total revenue since our inception from feasibility and collaboration agreements. We are currently party to a collaboration agreement with Shionogi, under which we received a $10.0 million upfront payment in December 2013. Our ability to generate additional revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize products, including any of our product candidates, or other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire in the future. Even if we are able to successfully achieve regulatory approval for these product candidates, we do not know when any of these products will generate revenue for us, if at all. Our ability to generate revenue from our current or future product candidates also depends on a number of additional factors, including our ability to: •successfully complete development activities, including the necessary clinical trials; •complete and submit NDAs to the FDA and obtain regulatory approval for indications for which there is a commercial market; •complete and submit applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities; •achieve the milestones contained in our collaboration agreement with Shionogi and sales sufficient to generate royalties under that agreement; •set a commercially viable price for our products; •obtain commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels; •develop a commercial organization capable of sales, marketing and distribution for the products we intend to sell ourselves in the markets in which we have retained commercialization rights; •find suitable distribution partners to help us market, sell and distribute our approved products in other markets; and •obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party, including government, payors. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development, including that our product candidates may not advance through development or achieve the endpoints of applicable clinical trials, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or when or if we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we are able to complete the process described above, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing these products. 39 Table of Contents Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations. If we require additional capital to fund our operations and we fail to obtain necessary financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to advance the clinical development of our product candidates and launch and commercialize any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, including potentially building our own commercial organization to address selected markets. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement to Shionogi, together with existing cash and interest thereon, including our $10.0 million upfront payment from Shionogi, will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next eighteen months. However, we may require additional capital for the further development and commercialization of our product candidates and may also need to raise additional funds sooner in order to accelerate development of our product candidates. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products or product candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to: •seek collaborators for one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or •relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of clinical trials for our product candidates, particularly Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, and any future product candidates we may in-license; •the clinical development plans we establish for these product candidates; •the ability to obtain abuse-deterrent claims in the labels for these product candidates; •our agreement with Shionogi remaining in effect and our ability to achieve milestones under this and any other license or collaboration agreement that we may enter into in the future; •the number and characteristics of product candidates that we in-license and develop; •the outcome, timing and cost of regulatory approvals by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently expect; •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; 40 Table of Contents •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the cost and timing of completion of commercial-scale outsourced manufacturing activities; and •the cost of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval in regions where we choose to commercialize our products on our own. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, receivables or royalty financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. We do not currently have any committed external source of funds other than possible milestone payments and possible royalties under our collaboration agreement with Shionogi. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of existing stockholders. Debt, receivables and royalty financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders' ownership. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business and may result in liens being placed on our assets and intellectual property. If we were to default on such indebtedness, we could lose such assets and intellectual property. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. Prior to our formation, Egalet UK managed all of our operations and was formed in July 2010. Our revenue-generating operations to date have been limited to providing services under various collaborative and research and development arrangements, organizing and staffing our company, acquiring product and technology rights, and conducting product development activities for our product candidates. We have not yet obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Consequently, any predictions about our future success, performance or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or approved products on the market. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Our foreign net operating losses ("NOLs") generated by Egalet UK's operations may be carried forward indefinitely but may become subject to an annual limitation. Upon potential examination by the statutory or governing authority, it may be determined that we experienced a greater than 50% change in share capital, which would limit the availability and use of existing foreign NOLs to offset our taxable income, if any, in the future. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an "ownership change," generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL 41 Table of Contents carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. In addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. Risks Related to the Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates Development of our product candidates is not complete, and we cannot be certain that our product candidates will be commercialized. To date, we have only generated an aggregate of $2.0 million in revenues from various collaborative and research and development arrangements and a $10.0 million upfront payment under our collaboration and licensing agreement with Shionogi. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our product candidates under development. For our lead product candidates, Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, and each additional product candidate that we intend to commercialize, we or a collaborator must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones, including: •selecting and developing a drug delivery platform technology to deliver the proper dose of drug over the desired period of time; •determining the appropriate drug dosage; •developing drug dosages that will be tolerated, safe and effective; •demonstrating the drug formulation will be stable for commercially reasonable time periods; •demonstrating through clinical trials that the drug is safe and effective in patients for the intended indication; and •completing the manufacturing development and scale-up to permit manufacture of our product candidates in commercial quantities and at acceptable prices. The time necessary to achieve these developmental milestones for any individual product candidate is long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for any of our product candidates in development. We have not yet completed development of any product. We may not be able to finalize the design or formulation of any product candidate. In addition, we may select components, solvents, excipients or other ingredients to include in our product candidates that have not been previously approved for use in pharmaceutical products, which may require us to perform additional studies and may delay clinical testing and regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even after we complete the design of a product candidate, the product candidate must still be shown to be bioequivalent to an approved drug or safe and effective in required preclinical studies and clinical trials before approval for commercialization. We are continuing to test and develop our product candidates and may explore possible design or formulation changes to address bioequivalence, safety, efficacy, manufacturing efficiency and performance issues. We may not be able to complete development of any product candidates that will be safe and effective and that will have a commercially reasonable treatment and storage period. If we are unable to complete development of Egalet-001, Egalet-002 or any of our other product candidates, we will not be able to earn revenue from them. If we or our collaborator are unable to design, conduct and complete clinical trials successfully, our product candidates will not be able to receive regulatory approval. In order to obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates, we must submit to the FDA an NDA with substantial evidence that demonstrates that the product candidate is both safe and 42 Table of Contents effective in humans for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research, preclinical studies and clinical trials. Clinical trials are time-consuming, very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous requirements. We or our collaborator could encounter problems that cause abandonment or repetition of clinical trials. If patients participating in clinical trials suffer drug-related adverse reactions during the course of such clinical trials, or if we or the FDA believe that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, such clinical trials will have to be suspended or terminated. Suspensions, termination or the need to repeat a clinical trial can occur at any stage. The clinical trial success of each of our product candidates designed to reduce potential risks of unintended use and abuse depends on reaching statistically significant changes in patients' symptoms based on clinician-rated scales. There is a lack of consensus regarding standardized processes for assessing clinical outcomes based on clinician-rated scales. Accordingly, the scores from our clinical trials may not be reliable, useful or acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Changes in standards related to clinical trial design could affect our ability to design and conduct clinical trials as planned. For example, we have conducted or will conduct clinical trials comparing our product candidates to both placebo and other approved drugs, but regulatory authorities may not allow us to compare our product candidates to a placebo in a particular clinical indication where approved products are available. In that case, both the cost and the amount of time required to conduct a clinical trial could increase. The FDA may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials. The FDA may also approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than we request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials. In addition, the FDA may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Approval may be contingent on a REMS which could limit the labeling, distribution or promotion of a drug product. Any of these delays or additional requirements could cause our product candidates to not be approved, or if approved, significantly impact the timing and commercialization of our product candidates and significantly increase our overall costs of drug development. If we or our collaborator are unable to conduct and complete clinical trials on schedule, or if there is a delay in the approval process, the cost of seeking necessary regulatory approvals will be significantly increased. The clinical trial process also consumes a significant amount of time. The length of clinical trials will depend upon, among other factors, the number of patients required to be enrolled in such studies and the rate of trial site and patient enrollment. We or our collaborator may fail to obtain adequate levels of patient enrollment in our clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of clinical trials. In addition, even if we enroll the number of patients we expect in the time frame we expect, such clinical trials may not provide the data necessary to support regulatory approval for the product candidates for which they were conducted. Additionally, we or our collaborator may fail to effectively oversee and monitor these clinical trials, which would result in increased costs or delays of our clinical trials. Even if these clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborator may fail to complete and submit an NDA as scheduled. Even if clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support expectations or intended marketing claims. The clinical trials process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for indicated uses. Such failure may cause us to abandon a product candidate and could delay development of other product candidates, or the FDA could require additional studies, in which case we would have to expend additional time and resources which would 43 Table of Contents likely delay the date of potentially receiving regulatory approval. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals would: •delay commercialization of, and product revenues from, our product candidates; and •diminish the competitive advantages that we may have otherwise enjoyed, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Because the results of preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, Egalet-001, Egalet-002 or any other product candidate we or our collaborator advance into additional clinical trials may not continue to have favorable results or receive regulatory approval. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will generate adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of an investigational drug. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including those with greater resources and experience, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier clinical trials. Despite the results reported in earlier clinical trials for Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, we do not know whether the clinical trials we or our collaborator may conduct will demonstrate adequate efficacy and safety or otherwise provide adequate information to result in regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any particular jurisdiction. If later-stage clinical trials do not produce favorable results, our ability to achieve regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be compromised. If we or our collaborator fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or if such approvals are limited, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and we will not generate product revenues. Even if we or our collaborator comply with all FDA pre-approval regulatory requirements, the FDA may not determine that some or all of our product candidates are safe and effective, and we may never obtain regulatory approval for some or all of our product candidates. If we or our collaborator fail to obtain regulatory approval for some or all of our product candidates, we will have fewer commercial products, if any, and correspondingly lower product revenues, if any. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, such approval may involve limitations on the indications and conditions of use or marketing claims for our products. Further, later discovery of previously unknown problems or adverse events could result in additional regulatory restrictions, including withdrawal of products. The FDA may also require us or our collaborator to perform lengthy Phase 4 post-approval clinical efficacy or safety trials. These trials could be very expensive. In addition, the FDA may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. In jurisdictions outside the United States, we must receive marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities before commercializing our product candidates. Regulatory approval processes outside the United States generally include requirements and risks similar to, and in many cases in excess of, the risks associated with FDA approval. If the FDA does not conclude that our product candidates are sufficiently bioequivalent, or have comparable bioavailability, to approved drugs, or if the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) approval pathway as anticipated, the approval pathway for those product candidates will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and the FDA may not approve those product candidates. A key element of our strategy is to seek FDA approval for Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 through the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least 44 Table of Contents some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Such reliance is typically predicated on a showing of bioequivalence or comparable bioavailability to an approved drug. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) approval pathway as anticipated, or if we cannot demonstrate bioequivalence or comparable bioavailability of our product candidates to approved products, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for these product candidates, and complications and risks associated with these product candidates, would likely substantially increase. Moreover, our inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) approval pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which could hurt our competitive position and our business prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) approval pathway, we cannot assure you that our product candidates will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may change its policies and practices with respect to Section 505(b)(2) regulatory approvals, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). Even if our product candidates are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are lengthy, time-consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval varies among jurisdictions and may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate, and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any future product candidates we may in-license, acquire or develop will ever obtain regulatory approval. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval from the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority for many reasons, including: •disagreement with or disapproval of the design or implementation of our clinical trials; •failure to demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication; •failure to sufficiently deter abuse; •failure of clinical trials to meet the level of statistical significance required for approval; •failure to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; •a negative interpretation of the data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials; 45 Table of Contents •deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or failure of third-party manufacturing facilities with whom we contract for clinical and commercial supplies to pass inspection; or •insufficient data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates or changes in the approval policies or regulations that render our preclinical and clinical data insufficient to support the submission and filing of an NDA or to obtain regulatory approval. The FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require more information, including additional preclinical or clinical data to support approval, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans, or cause us to abandon the development program. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, our product candidates may be approved for fewer or more limited indications than we request, such approval may be contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or we may not be allowed to include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of such product candidate. In addition, if our product candidate produces undesirable side effects or safety issues, the FDA may require the establishment of a REMS, or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require the establishment of a similar strategy, that may, for instance, restrict distribution of our products and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us. For example, we expect that certain of our product candidates, if approved, including Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, will be subject to REMS. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates. In order to market and sell our products outside of the United States, we must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and various regulatory requirements and regimes, which can involve additional testing, may take substantially longer than the FDA approval process, and still generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. FDA approval does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA, and we may not obtain any regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we are unable to obtain approval of any of our product candidates by regulatory authorities in the European Union, China or another country, the commercial prospects of that product candidate may be significantly diminished and our business prospects could decline. Our ability to market and promote our products in the United States by describing their abuse-deterrent features will be determined by the FDA-approved labeling for them. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend upon our ability to obtain FDA approved labeling describing their abuse-deterrent features or benefits. Our failure to achieve FDA approval of product labeling containing such information will prevent or substantiality limit our advertising and promotion of the abuse-deterrent features of our product candidates in order to differentiate them from other opioid products containing the same active ingredients. This would make our products less competitive in the market. The FDA has publicly stated that explicit claims that a product is expected to result in a meaningful reduction of abuse must be supported by randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical studies of the abuse potential of the drug and that explicit claims that a product has demonstrated reduced abuse in the community will be required to be supported by post-marketing data, including formal post-marketing studies evaluating the effect of abuse-deterrent formulations. Although we intend to conduct such studies, there can be no assurance that our product candidates in development will receive FDA-approved labeling that describes the abuse-deterrent features of such products. If the 46 Table of Contents FDA does not approve labeling containing such information, we will not be able to promote such products based on their abuse-deterrent features, may not be able to differentiate such products from other opioid products containing the same active ingredients, and may not be able to charge a premium above the price of such other products. Because the FDA closely regulates promotional materials and other promotional activities, even if the FDA initially approves product labeling that includes a description of the abuse-deterrent characteristics of our product, the FDA may object to our marketing claims and product advertising campaigns. This could lead to the issuance of warning letters or untitled letters, suspension or withdrawal of our products from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. Any of these consequences would harm the commercial success of our products. Our decision to seek approval of Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 under Section 505(b)(2) may increase the risk that patent infringement suits are filed against us, which would delay the FDA's approval of such product candidates. In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2), we will also be required to notify the patent holder that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the approved drug, also known as a reference listed drug ("RLD") in the FDA's Orange Book publication are invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our drug. If the patent holder files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a court decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our product candidates may be commercialized. With regard to Egalet-002, we are aware of litigation involving the sponsor for the RLD for oxycodone and a number of generic manufacturers related to patents listed in the Orange Book that expire on various dates between 2017 and 2025. There is a risk that the sponsor for the RLD for oxycodone may bring infringement claims against us. Even if we are found not to infringe, or a plaintiff's patent claims are found invalid or unenforceable, defending any such infringement claim would be expensive and time-consuming, and would delay launch of Egalet-002 and distract management from their normal responsibilities. We anticipate that Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 will be subject to mandatory REMS programs, which could delay the approval of these product candidates and increase the cost, burden and liability associated with the commercialization of these product candidates. The FDA has indicated that some opioid drugs formulated with the active ingredients fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, oxymorphone, and others will be required to have a REMS to ensure that the benefits of the drugs continue to outweigh the risks. The FDA has approved a REMS for ER and long-acting ("LA") opioids as part of a federal initiative to address prescription drug abuse and misuse. The REMS introduces new safety measures designed to reduce risks and improve the safe use of ER/LA opioids, while ensuring access to needed medications for patients in pain. The ER/LA opioid REMS affects more than 20 companies that manufacture these opioid analgesics. Under the new REMS, companies are required to make education programs available to prescribers based on an FDA Blueprint. It is expected that companies will meet this obligation by providing educational grants to continuing education providers, who will develop and deliver the training. The REMS also requires companies to make available FDA-approved patient education materials on the safe use of these drugs. The companies must perform periodic assessments of the implementation of the REMS and the success of the program in meeting its goals. The FDA will review these assessments and may require additional elements to achieve the goals of the program. 47 Table of Contents We anticipate that Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 will be subject to the REMS requirement. There may be increased cost, administrative burden and potential liability associated with the marketing and sale of these types of product candidates subject to the REMS requirement, which could reduce the commercial benefits to us from the sale of these product candidates. Our product candidates contain controlled substances, the manufacture, use, sale, importation, exportation and distribution of which are subject to regulation by state, federal and foreign law enforcement and other regulatory agencies. Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 contain, and our future product candidates will likely contain, controlled substances which are subject to state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding their manufacture, use, sale, importation, exportation and distribution. Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 contain active ingredients that are classified as controlled substances under the CSA and regulations of the DEA. A number of states also independently regulate these drugs as controlled substances. Chemical compounds are classified by the DEA as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. The active ingredients in our lead product candidates Egalet-001 and Egalet-002, morphine and oxycodone, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II controlled substances under the CSA. For our product candidates containing controlled substances, we and our suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, customers and distributors are required to obtain and maintain applicable registrations from state, federal and foreign law enforcement and regulatory agencies and comply with state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture, use, sale, importation, exportation and distribution of controlled substances. For example, all Schedule II drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule II substances that can be obtained for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the CSA and DEA regulations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these controlled substances in order to complete our clinical trials or meet commercial demand, if our product candidates are approved for marketing. In addition, controlled substances are also subject to regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, production and procurement quotas, recordkeeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal. These regulations increase the personnel needs and the expense associated with development and commercialization of product candidates that include controlled substances. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or to comply with any applicable regulations could delay or preclude us from developing and commercializing our product candidates that contain controlled substances and subject us to enforcement action. Because of their restrictive nature, these regulations could limit commercialization of our product candidates containing controlled substances. Conducting clinical trials of our product candidates and any future commercial sales of a product candidate may expose us to expensive product liability claims, and we may not be able to maintain product liability insurance on reasonable terms or at all. We currently carry clinical trial insurance with coverage up to approximately $13 million, but we do not carry product liability insurance. Even if we successfully commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we may face product liability claims, regardless of FDA approval for commercial manufacturing and sale. Product liability claims may be brought against us by subjects enrolled in our clinical trials, patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop; 48 Table of Contents •termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs; •injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •significant costs to defend the related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to trial subjects or patients; •loss of revenue; •diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; •the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop; and •an increase in product liability insurance premiums or an inability to maintain product liability insurance coverage. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our product candidates. Any agreements we may enter into in the future with collaborators in connection with the development or commercialization of our product candidates may entitle us to indemnification against product liability losses, but such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, and we may face regulatory enforcement action if we do not comply with the requirements. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP and other regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discover problems with a product which were previously unknown, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters or untitled letters; •mandate modifications to promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners; •require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include the imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs and penalties for noncompliance, and require due dates for specific actions; •seek an injunction, impose civil penalties or monetary fines or pursue criminal prosecution; •suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications filed by us; •suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or •seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products, or require us to initiate a product recall. 49 Table of Contents The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We currently have no sales or marketing capabilities and, if we are unable to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities or enter into strategic alliances with collaborators, we may not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. Although our executive officers have experience marketing pharmaceutical products, we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not intend to begin to hire marketing personnel or establish our own sales organization in the United States unless and until we have received FDA approval of one of our product candidates. Therefore, at the time of our anticipated commercial launch of Egalet-001, assuming regulatory approval of the product candidate by the FDA, our sales and marketing team will have worked together for only a limited period of time. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in marketing Egalet-001, Egalet-002 or any of our other product candidates in the United States. We may not be able to establish a targeted sales force in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on this investment. In addition, we will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates in the United States include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our product candidates; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure or if we do not successfully enter into appropriate collaboration arrangements, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates. Outside the United States, where we intend to commercialize our product candidates by entering into agreements with third-party collaborators, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties, in which case our future revenues would depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our product candidates, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors including: •approved indications, warnings and precautions language that may be less desirable than anticipated; •perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, and, in particular, the efficacy of our abuse-deterrent technology in reducing potential risks of unintended use; •perceptions by physicians regarding the cost benefit of our product candidates in reducing potential risks of unintended use; 50 Table of Contents •published studies demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates relative to competing products; •availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement for our product candidates from government or healthcare payors; •our ability to implement a REMS prior to the distribution of any product candidate requiring a REMS; and •effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and other licensees and distributors. Because we expect to rely on sales generated by our current lead product candidates, if approved, for substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of our product candidates to find market acceptance would harm our business prospects. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products that compete with any of our product candidates, it could reduce our sales of those product candidates. Once an NDA, including a Section 505(b)(2) application, is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a "listed drug" which can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA. The FFDCA, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use, or labeling, as our product candidate and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as, or is bioequivalent to, our product candidate. These generic equivalents would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product are typically lost to the generic product. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents to our product candidates would substantially limit our ability to generate revenues and therefore to obtain a return on the investments we have made in our product candidates. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us or our collaborator to commercialize our product candidates and may reduce the prices we are able to obtain for our product candidates. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities or affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we or our collaborator obtain marketing approval. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("Medicare Modernization Act") established the Medicare Part D program and provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class thereunder. The Medicare Modernization Act, including its cost reduction initiatives, could decrease the coverage and reimbursement rate that we receive for any of our approved products. Furthermore, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. It also contains substantial new provisions 51 Table of Contents intended to, among other things, broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, and impose additional health policy reforms, any of which could negatively impact our business. A significant number of provisions are not yet, or have only recently become, effective, but the Affordable Care Act is likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Other legislative changes have also been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, the Budget Control Act of 2011 resulted in aggregate reductions in Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013, and the American Taxpayer Relief act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could impose additional financial pressure on our customers, which could in turn diminish demand for our products or result in pricing pressure on us. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have been and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may compromise our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products. In addition, state pharmacy laws may permit pharmacists to substitute generic products for branded products if the products are therapeutic equivalents, or may permit pharmacists and pharmacy benefit managers to seek prescriber authorization to substitute generics in place of our product candidates, which could significantly diminish demand for them and significantly impact our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and generate revenues. Even if we or our collaborator are able to commercialize our product candidates, our products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could harm our business. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we or our collaborator might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, which could negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that particular country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will also depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance 52 Table of Contents organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be and whether it will be satisfactory. Coverage and reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could reduce our future revenues. Failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations for marketing our product candidates could delay or inhibit our ability to generate revenues from their sale and could also expose us to claims or other sanctions. Advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval in the United States will be heavily scrutinized by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the HHS Office of the Inspector General, state attorneys general, members of Congress and the public. Violations, including promotion of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, are subject to enforcement letters, inquiries and investigations, and civil and criminal sanctions by the FDA. Additionally, advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval outside of the United States will be heavily scrutinized by comparable foreign regulatory authorities. In the United States, engaging in impermissible promotion of our products for off-label uses can also subject us to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to civil and criminal penalties and fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which we promote or distribute our drug products. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. If the government prevails in the lawsuit, the individual will share in any fines or settlement funds. Since 2004, these False Claims Act lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth, leading to several substantial civil and criminal settlements based on certain sales practices promoting off-label drug uses. This growth in litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations, and be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid 53 Table of Contents and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we do not lawfully promote our approved products, we may become subject to such litigation and, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, those actions could compromise our ability to become profitable. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility, or our failure to update regulatory files, may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of the following or other similar events, if they were to occur, could delay or preclude us from further developing, marketing or realizing the full commercial potential of our product candidates: •failure to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals; •failure to obtain approvals of labeling with abuse-deterrent claims; or •FDA required product withdrawals or warnings arising from identification of serious and unanticipated adverse side effects in our product candidates. Social issues around the abuse of opioids, including law enforcement concerns over diversion of opioid and regulatory efforts to combat abuse, could decrease the potential market for our product candidates. Media stories regarding prescription drug abuse and the diversion of opioids and other controlled substances are commonplace. Law enforcement and regulatory agencies may apply policies that seek to limit the availability of opioids. Such efforts may inhibit our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Aggressive enforcement and unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, the use or misuse of oxycodone or other opioid drugs, the limitations of abuse-resistant formulations, public inquiries and investigations into prescription drug abuse, litigation or regulatory activity, sales, marketing, distribution or storage of our drug products could harm our reputation. Such negative publicity could reduce the potential size of the market for our product candidates and decrease the revenues we are able to generate from their sale. Similarly, to the extent opioid abuse becomes less prevalent or less urgent of a public health issue, regulators and third party payers may not be willing to pay a premium for abuse-deterrent formulations of opioids. Additionally, efforts by the FDA and other regulatory bodies to combat abuse of opioids may negatively impact the market for our product candidates. For example, on September 10, 2013, the FDA announced its intention to effect labeling changes to all approved ER and long-acting opioids. In particular, the FDA intends to update the indication for ER and long-acting opioids so that ER and long-acting opioids will be indicated only for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. It is possible that such changes could reduce the number of prescriptions for opioids written by physicians and negatively impact the potential market for our product candidates. We intend to market our products outside of the United States, and we will be subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Because we intend to market products, if approved, outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Accordingly, our business and financial results in the future could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including: •failure to develop an international sales, marketing and distribution system for our products; •changes in a specific country's or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition; •unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; •difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; •inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; 54 Table of Contents •trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as Export Administration Regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; •the effects of applicable foreign tax structures and potentially adverse tax consequences; and •significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon third-party contract research organizations ("CROs") to monitor and manage data for our ongoing preclinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We also rely on third parties to assist in conducting our preclinical studies in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices ("GLP") and the Animal Welfare Act requirements. We and our CROs are required to comply with federal regulations and current Good Clinical Practices ("GCP") which are international standards meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, advisors and monitors, enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area ("EEA") and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat preclinical studies and clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with them, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical and preclinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Because we have relied on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risks that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third-party service providers requires us to disclose our proprietary information to these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third-party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify and successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our ability to advance our product candidates through clinical 55 Table of Contents trials will be compromised. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future. We depend on our collaboration with Shionogi and may depend on collaborations with additional third parties for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates. In November 2013, we entered into our collaboration with Shionogi for the development and commercialization of hydrocodone-based product candidates. The collaboration involves a complex allocation of rights, provides for milestone payments to us based on the achievement of specified regulatory and sales-based milestones and provides us with royalty-based revenue if certain product candidates are successfully commercialized. We cannot predict the success of the collaboration. Under the collaboration, we will have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborator dedicates to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues from this arrangement will depend on Shionogi's abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to it in this arrangement. We may also seek other third-party collaborators for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Collaborations involving our product candidates, including our collaboration with Shionogi, pose the following risks to us: •Collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. For example, under our collaboration with Shionogi, development and commercialization plans and strategies for licensed programs will be conducted in accordance with a plan and budget approved by a joint committee comprised of equal numbers of representatives from each of us and Shionogi. •Collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborator's strategic focus or available funding or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities. For example, it is possible for Shionogi to elect not to progress into clinical development the hydrocodone-based product candidates without triggering a termination of the collaboration arrangement. •Collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing. For example, under our agreement with Shionogi, it is possible for Shionogi to terminate the agreement, upon 90 days prior written notice, with respect to any product candidate at any point in the research, development and clinical trial process, without triggering a termination of the remainder of the collaboration arrangement. •Collaborators may conduct clinical trials inappropriately, or may obtain unfavorable results in their clinical trials, which may have an adverse effect on the development of our own programs. •Collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours. •A collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such products. •Collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or 56 Table of Contents invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. For example, Shionogi has the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights under our collaboration arrangement with respect to certain licensed programs and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if Shionogi does not, our ability to do so may be compromised by Shionogi's actions. •Disputes may arise between the collaborators and us that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources. •We may lose certain valuable rights under circumstances identified in our collaborations, including, in the case of our agreement with Shionogi, if we undergo a change of control. •Collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates. •Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If a present or future collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program under such collaboration could be delayed, diminished or terminated. If we lose our relationships with CROs, our drug development efforts could be delayed. We rely on third-party vendors and CROs for preclinical studies and clinical trials related to our drug development efforts. Switching or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. Our CROs have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event of an uncured material breach. In addition, some of our CROs have an ability to terminate their respective agreements with us if it can be reasonably demonstrated that the safety of the subjects participating in our clinical trials warrants such termination, if we make a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors or if we are liquidated. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult, time-consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work and the new CRO may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. If any of our relationships with our third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. If third-party manufacturers of our product candidates fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed and our costs may be higher than expected and could harm our business. We have no manufacturing facilities and have limited experience in drug development and commercial manufacturing. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate, manufacture or test the technical performance of our product candidates. We currently rely on a limited number of experienced personnel and one contract manufacturer, Halo Pharmaceutical, as well as other vendors to formulate, test, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Our reliance on a limited number of vendors and a single manufacturer exposes us to the following risks, any of which could delay our clinical trials, and, consequently, FDA approval of our product candidates and commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues: •Contract commercial manufacturers, their sub-contractors or other third parties we rely on, may encounter difficulties in achieving the volume of production needed to satisfy clinical needs or commercial demand, may experience technical issues that impact quality or compliance with applicable and strictly enforced regulations governing the manufacture of pharmaceutical 57 Table of Contents products, and may experience shortages of qualified personnel to adequately staff production operations. •Our contract manufacturer could default on its agreements with us to provide clinical supplies or meet our requirements for commercialization of our products. •For certain of our product candidates, the use of alternate manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers that have the necessary governmental licenses to produce narcotic products is limited. Additionally, the FDA and the DEA must approve any alternative manufacturer of our products before we may use the alternative manufacturer to produce our product candidates. •It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. Our contract manufacturers and vendors may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our product candidates and any products that we may eventually commercialize be manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturer to comply with cGMP or failure to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. In addition, such failure could be the basis for the FDA to issue a warning or untitled letter, withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us, or take other regulatory or legal action, including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplemental applications, detention or product, refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunction, imposing civil penalties, or pursuing criminal prosecution. Because we currently rely on a sole supplier to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients of our product candidates, any production problems with our supplier could adversely affect us. We have relied upon supply agreements with third parties for the manufacture and supply of the bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients used in our product candidates for purposes of preclinical testing and clinical trials. We presently depend upon a single source as the sole manufacturer of our supply of APIs for our other product candidates and intend to contract with this supplier, as necessary, for commercial scale manufacturing of our products. Although we have identified alternate sources for these supplies, it would be time-consuming and costly to qualify these sources. Since we currently obtain our API from this manufacturer on a purchase-order basis, either we or our supplier may terminate our arrangement, without cause, at any time without notice. If our supplier were to terminate our arrangement or fail to meet our supply needs we might be forced to delay our development programs. To the extent we elect to enter into additional licensing or collaboration agreements to further develop or commercialize our product candidates, our dependence on such relationships may reduce our revenues or could lengthen the time for us to generate cash flows from the sale of our product candidates. Our commercialization strategy for some of our product candidates in preclinical development may depend on our ability to enter into agreements with collaborators to obtain assistance and funding for the development and potential commercialization of these product candidates. Supporting diligence activities conducted by potential collaborators and negotiating the financial and other terms of a collaboration agreement are long and complex processes with uncertain results. Even if we are successful in entering into additional collaboration agreements, collaborations may involve greater uncertainty for us, as we have less control over certain aspects of our collaborative programs than we 58 Table of Contents do over our proprietary development and commercialization programs. We may determine that continuing a collaboration under the terms provided is not in our best interest, and we may terminate the collaboration. Our collaborators could delay or terminate their agreements, and our products subject to collaborative arrangements may never be successfully commercialized. Further, our future collaborators may develop alternative products or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, and the priorities or focus of our collaborators may shift such that our programs receive less attention or resources than we would like, or they may be terminated altogether. Any such actions by our collaborators would compromise our ability to earn revenues. In addition, we could have disputes with our future collaborators, such as the interpretation of terms in our agreements. Any such disagreements could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of any potential products or could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration, which may not be resolved in our favor. Even with respect to certain other programs that we intend to commercialize ourselves, we may enter into agreements with collaborators to share in the burden of conducting clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing our product candidates or products. In addition, our ability to apply our proprietary technologies to develop proprietary compounds will depend on our ability to establish and maintain licensing arrangements or other collaborative arrangements with the holders of proprietary rights to such compounds. We may not be able to establish such arrangements on favorable terms or at all, and our future collaborative arrangements may not be successful. We intend to rely on collaborators to market and commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States, who may fail to effectively commercialize our product candidates. Outside of the United States, we currently plan to utilize strategic partners or contract sales forces, where appropriate, to assist in the commercialization of our product candidates, if approved. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing collaborations or co-promotion arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We also face competition in our search for collaborators and co-promoters. By entering into strategic collaborations or similar arrangements, we will rely on third parties for financial resources and for development, commercialization, sales and marketing and regulatory expertise. Our collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates because they cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, they lack adequate financial or other resources or they decide to focus on other initiatives. Any failure of our third-party collaborators to successfully market and commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States would diminish our revenues. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. We face and will continue to face competition from other companies in the pharmaceuticals, medical devices and drug delivery industries. Our product candidates, if approved, will compete with currently marketed oral opioids, transdermal opioids, local anesthetic patches, stimulants and implantable and external infusion pumps that can be used for infusion of opioids and local anesthetics. Products of these types are marketed by Purdue Pharma, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Durect, Endo, Mallinckrodt, Zogenix, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Pain Therapeutics, Acura, Nektar, Collegium Pharmaceuticals, Actavis and others. Some of these companies and many others are applying significant resources and expertise to the challenges of drug delivery, and several are focusing or may focus on drug delivery to the intended site of action. Some of these current and potential future competitors may be addressing the same therapeutic areas or indications as we are. Many of our current and potential future competitors have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we 59 Table of Contents do, have substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial, technical, human and managerial resources than we do, and have more institutional experience than we do. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that allow them to develop and commercialize their products before us and limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are safer, more effective, more widely used and less costly than ours, and they may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. Furthermore, if the FDA approves a competitor's 505(b)(2) application for a drug candidate before our application for a similar drug candidate, and grants the competitor a period of exclusivity, the FDA may take the position that it cannot approve our NDA for a similar drug candidate. For example, we believe that several competitors are developing extended-release oxycodone products, and if the FDA approves a competitor's 505(b)(2) application for an extended-release oxycodone product and grants exclusivity before our NDA for Egalet-002 is filed and approved, we could be subject to a delay that would dramatically reduce our expected market potential for Egalet-002. Additionally, even if our 505(b)(2) application for Egalet-002 is approved first, we may still be subject to competition from other oxycodone products, including approved products or other approved 505(b)(2) NDAs for different conditions of use that would not be restricted by any grant of exclusivity to us. In addition, competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects than our product candidates. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our product candidates and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to our product offerings. The widespread acceptance of currently available therapies with which our product candidates will compete may limit market acceptance of our product candidates even if commercialized. Oral medication, transdermal drug delivery systems, such as drug patches, injectable products and implantable drug delivery devices are currently available treatments for chronic and post-operative pain, are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. These treatments will compete with our product candidates, if approved, and the established use of these competitive products may limit the potential for our product candidates to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. The use of legal and regulatory strategies by competitors with innovator products, including the filing of citizen petitions, may delay or prevent the introduction or approval of our product candidates, increase our costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our products, or significantly reduce the profit potential of our products. Companies with innovator drugs often pursue strategies that may serve to prevent or delay competition from alternatives to their innovator products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: •filing "citizen petitions" with the FDA that may delay competition by causing delays of our product approvals; •seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate a product's bioequivalence or "sameness" to the related innovator product; •filing suits for patent infringement that automatically delay FDA approval of Section 505(b)(2) products; 60 Table of Contents •obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of innovator drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; •persuading the FDA to withdraw the approval of innovator drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the innovator company to develop and launch new patented products serving as substitutes for the withdrawn products; •seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire; and •initiating legislative and administrative efforts in various states to limit the substitution of innovator products by pharmacies. •These strategies could delay, reduce or eliminate our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with our product candidates. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the services of our key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Robert Radie, and our Chief Financial Officer, Stan Musial. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Radie and Musial, these agreements are at-will and do not prevent them from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain "key person" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. The loss of the services of either Mr. Radie or Mr. Musial could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified scientific and technical employees, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our future growth and success depend on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our scientific and technical employees. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense, and as a result, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of December 31, 2013, we had 19 full-time employees. As our development and commercialization strategies develop, we will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including: •managing our clinical trials effectively; •identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees; •managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties; •improving our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and •expanding our facilities. 61 Table of Contents As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders or cause us to recognize accounting charges in our financial statements. While we currently have no specific plans to acquire any other businesses, we may, in the future, make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies that we believe have products or capabilities that are a strategic or commercial fit with our current product candidates and business or otherwise offer opportunities for our company. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we may: •issue stock that would dilute our stockholders' percentage of ownership; •incur debt and assume liabilities; and •incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets or incur large and immediate write-offs. We also may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete an acquisition, we cannot assure you that it will ultimately strengthen our competitive position or that it will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. Further, future acquisitions could also pose numerous additional risks to our operations, including: •problems integrating the purchased business, products or technologies; •increases to our expenses; •the failure to have discovered undisclosed liabilities of the acquired asset or company; •diversion of management's attention from their day-to-day responsibilities; •entrance into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired entity. We may not be able to successfully complete one or more acquisitions or effectively integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to: •comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities; •provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities; •comply with manufacturing standards we have established; •comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities; •report financial information or data accurately; or 62 Table of Contents •disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Our relationships with customers and payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, transparency, and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval. Our arrangements with payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations may affect our ability to operate, including: •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; •the federal False Claims Act, which imposes criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; •state and foreign anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental payors, including private insurers; •HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; •HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 and its implementing regulations, which also imposes obligations on certain covered entity healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform certain services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; 63 Table of Contents •laws which require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restricting payments that may be made to healthcare providers; •federal laws requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and other healthcare providers, as well as ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, including under the federal Open Payments program, as well as other state and foreign laws regulating marketing activities; and •state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, that person or entity may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs, and it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur significant costs. In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and product candidates, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions. Our research and development involves the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials, including chemicals, solvents, agents and biohazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently contract with third parties to dispose of these substances that we generate, and we rely on these third parties to properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If these third parties do not properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to legal action by governmental agencies or private parties for improper disposal of these substances. The costs of defending such actions and the potential liability resulting from such actions are often very large. In the event we are subject to such legal action or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. 64 Table of Contents Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems, and those of our CROs and other third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could negatively impact our results of operations and increase our costs. Some payments to our employees, suppliers and contract manufacturers are denominated in foreign currencies. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk, and our reported results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency. A significant appreciation in the foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would result in higher reported expenses and would cause our net losses to increase. Likewise, to the extent that we generate any revenues denominated in foreign currencies, or become required to make payments in other foreign currencies, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and those foreign currencies could also negatively impact our reported results of operations. We have not entered into any hedging contracts to mitigate the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for our technology and product candidates, we may lose valuable assets or experience reduced market share. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on patent and trademark laws, unpatented trade secrets and know-how, and confidentiality, licensing and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and product candidates. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the United States. The rights already granted under any of our currently issued patents and those that may be granted under future issued patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. Further, given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such product candidates might expire before or shortly after such product candidates are commercialized. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could 65 Table of Contents develop and commercialize technology and products identical, similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected. With respect to patent rights, our patent applications may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies, may be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged or may be interpreted in a manner that does not adequately product our technology or future products. Even if our owned patent applications issue into patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us, or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. The examination process may require us to narrow the claims in our patents, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained. Our competitors may design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of our development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection on them. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these foreign laws may also be subject to change. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions typically are not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs associated with the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act ("Leahy-Smith Act") which was signed into law on September 16, 2011, made significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and litigated. Many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act and, in particular, the "first to file" provisions described below, only became effective on March 16, 2013. The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. Pursuant to the Leahy-Smith Act, the United States transitioned to a "first to file" system in which the first inventor to file a patent application will be entitled to the patent. In addition, third parties are allowed to submit prior art before the issuance of a patent by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and may become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, or inter partes review challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, which could adversely affect our competitive position with respect to third parties. Because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, issued patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents, or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical 66 Table of Contents technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patented technology, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is expensive, difficult and, may in some cases not be possible. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful, and result in the loss of valuable assets. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and unauthorized use by competitors, and to protect our trade secrets. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights. In so doing, we may place our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated, unenforceable, or limited or narrowed in scope. Further, this can be expensive and time consuming. Many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defend their intellectual property rights than we can. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, an adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in intellectual property litigation could result in costly litigation and potentially limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize future products without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our current or future product candidates or products, or any uses of them, may now or in the future infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. This is due in part to the considerable uncertainty within the pharmaceutical industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the United States and elsewhere in the world and, to date, there is no consistency regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. In part as a result of this uncertainty, there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us, or other parties we have agreed to indemnify, based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. We are aware of third-party patents and patent applications related to morphine or oxycodone drugs and formulations, including those listed in the FDA's Orange Book for oxycodone products. Since patent applications are published some time after filing, and because applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending third-party patent applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents. Because of the inevitable uncertainty in intellectual property litigation, we could lose, even if the case against us was weak or flawed. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and commercializing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable 67 Table of Contents terms or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations. In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2), we will also be required to notify the patent holder that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the RLD in the FDA's Orange Book publication are invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our drug. If the patent holder files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a court decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our product candidates may be commercialized. With regard to Egalet-002, we are aware of litigation involving the sponsor for the RLD for oxycodone and a number of generic manufacturers related to patents listed in the Orange Book that expire on various dates between 2017 and 2025. There is a risk that the sponsor for the RLD for oxycodone may bring infringement claims against us. Even if we are found not to infringe, or a plaintiff's patent claims are found invalid or unenforceable, defending any such infringement claim would be expensive and time-consuming, and would delay launch of Egalet-002 and distract management from their normal responsibilities. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation, including any interference or derivation proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions or other post-grant review proceedings to patents in the United States or in countries outside the United States, or litigation against our partners may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could compromise the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights or hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products. We may be subject to claims by third parties of ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property or obligations to make compensatory payments to employees. While it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing or obtaining such an agreement with each party who, in fact, develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. In addition, they may breach the assignment agreements or such agreements may not be self-executing, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. In accordance with the provisions of the Danish Act on inventions of employees, we may be required to make a compensatory payment to an employee in return for the assignment to us of his or her rights to an invention made within the course of his or her employment. Any such payment would reduce the cash available to fund our operations. 68 Table of Contents We may need to license intellectual property from third parties, and such licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights, that is important or necessary to the development of our product candidates. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of a third party to commercialize our own technology or products candidates, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from such third party. A license to such intellectual property may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Intellectual property disputes could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical or management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Any such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct the litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could adversely impact our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts both within and outside the United States may be less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent such competitor, or those to whom they communicate them, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed or independently developed, our competitive position would be harmed. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop and sell their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents or our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing. 69 Table of Contents Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or the marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees, including our senior management, were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. These employees typically executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with their previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. We are not aware of any threatened or pending claims related to these matters, but in the future litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. We do not know whether an active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock will develop or continue to exist or what the market price of our common stock will be in the future, and as a result it may be difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock. Prior to our initial public offering there was no market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial listing on the NASDAQ Global Market on February 6, 2014, the trading market in our common stock has been limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. As of March 24, 2013, approximately 71.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock was held by our officers, directors, beneficial owners of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price. 70 Table of Contents Our share price may be volatile, which could subject us to securities class action litigation and result in substantial losses to our stockholders. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report, these factors include: •the success of competitive products or technologies; •regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors' products; •actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments; •results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; •regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries; •developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs; •the results of our efforts to in-license or acquire additional product candidates or products; •actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts; •variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; •announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; •sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; and •general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in these "Risk Factors," could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities 71 Table of Contents litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Future issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, we may sell substantial amounts of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. These future issuances of common stock or common stock-related securities, together with the exercise of outstanding options and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, if any, may result in material dilution to our investors. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our 2013 Stock-Based Incentive Plan, our compensation committee is authorized to grant equity-based incentive awards to our directors, executive officers and other employees and service providers, including officers, employees and service providers of our subsidiaries and affiliates. The number of shares of our common stock we have initially reserved for issuance under our 2013 Stock-Based Incentive Plan is 1,680,000, and future option grants and issuances of common stock under our 2013 Stock-Based Incentive Plan may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, some of our directors, executive officers and other employees are currently entitled to receive awards of up to an aggregate of 3.8% of the proceeds payable in connection with certain changes of control before any payments to our equityholders. If and to the extent we do not replace these rights with grants under our 2013 Stock-Based Incentive Plan, we could be required to make additional awards that would result in dilution, in addition to any dilution as a result of awards under the Stock-Based Incentive Plan, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement and may not use them effectively. On February 11, 2014, we completed our initial public offering of 4,200,000 shares of Common Stock, at a price of $12.00 per share, and we issued an additional 630,000 shares of Common Stock at the initial public offering price of $12.00 per share upon the exercise in full by the underwriters of their over-allotment option on March 7, 2014. We received net proceeds of $51,549,600 from the sale, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses. The offer and sale of all of the shares in the offering were registered under the Securities Act in accordance with the Company's final prospectus filed on February 7, 2013 with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) of the Securities Act. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement. We expect to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement to fund clinical trials of and establish commercial manufacturing capability for Egalet-001 and Egalet-002 and for working capital and general corporate purposes. Pending their use, we will invest the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our stockholders. If we do not invest or apply the net proceeds from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 72 Table of Contents We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our principal stockholders and management exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of March 24, 2014, our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 71.1% of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders will be able to determine the outcome of elections of directors, effect amendments of our organizational documents, or approve any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, or remove our current management. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow for less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; •establishing a staggered board of directors; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may also discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 73 Table of Contents 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We are an "emerging growth company" and we intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could result in our common stock being less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company, which could be for up to five years. See "Summary—Implications of Being an Emerging Growth Company." If investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reduced reporting requirements, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may also be unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Commencing with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014, we will be required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not 74 Table of Contents being required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and compile the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion, which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting once that firm begin its reviews, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. If we are unable to successfully remediate the existing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013, our management and independent registered public accounting firm identified control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that constitute material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm did not perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Had we and our independent registered public accounting firm performed such an evaluation, additional control deficiencies may have been identified by management or our independent registered public accounting firm, and those control deficiencies could have also represented one or more material weaknesses. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our control over financial reporting attributable to the combination of our lack of sufficient financial reporting and accounting personnel with appropriate training in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") and SEC rules and regulations with respect to financial reporting and a lack of segregation of duties. As such, our controls over financial reporting were not designed or operating effectively, and as a result there were adjustments required, including with respect to revenue recognition, in connection with closing our books and records and preparing our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013. These control deficiencies resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual and interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. In an effort to remediate our material weakness, we have hired a Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration. We intend to hire additional finance and accounting personnel with appropriate training, build our financial management and reporting infrastructure, and 75 Table of Contents further develop and document our accounting policies and financial reporting procedures. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing these measures or that these measures will significantly improve or remediate the material weaknesses described above. There is also no assurance that we have identified all of our material weaknesses or that we will not in the future have additional material weaknesses. We have not yet remediated the material weakness noted above, and the remediation measures that we have implemented and intend to implement may be insufficient to address our existing material weaknesses or to prevent additional material weaknesses. If we fail to remediate the material weaknesses or to meet the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, or report them within the timeframes required by law or stock exchange regulations. There is no assurance that we will be able to remediate the material weaknesses in a timely manner, or at all, or that in the future, additional material weaknesses will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to remediate the material weaknesses identified are not successful, or if other material weaknesses or other deficiencies occur, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position could be impaired, which could result in late filings of our annual and quarterly reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price or suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We will incur increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, for example, will result in significant initial cost to us as well as ongoing increases in our legal, audit and financial compliance costs, particularly after we are no longer an "emerging growth company." The Exchange Act, requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Our board of directors, management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and require us to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 once we lose our status as an "emerging growth company." We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require 76 Table of Contents specific compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate consolidated financial statements or other reports on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There can be no assurance that analysts will continue to cover us or provide favorable coverage. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 