ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unitholders should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the SEC before investing in our common units. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common units could decline and a unitholder could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cash reimbursement to our general partner and its affiliates to enable us to pay our minimum quarterly distributions to holders of our units. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3875 per unit per quarter, or $1.55 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require available cash of approximately $4.6 million per quarter, or $18.3 million per year, based on the number of common and subordinated units outstanding as of March 25, 2015. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the fees we charge, and the margins we realize, from W&ES, as well as PI&IS; · the volume of saltwater we handle in W&ES and the number and types of projects conducted by PI&IS; · the amount of residual oil we are able to separate and sell from the saltwater we receive that can be impacted by the quality and price of the oil; · the cost of achieving organic growth in current and new markets; · our ability to make acquisitions of other SWD facilities and pipeline inspection companies; · the level of competition from other companies; · governmental regulations, including changes in governmental regulations, in our industry; 15 Table of Contents · prevailing economic and market conditions; and · weather and natural disasters, lightning, seismic activity, vandalism and acts of terror. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · the cost of acquisitions; · the level of our operating costs and expenses and the performance of our various facilities, inspectors and staff; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; · restrictions contained in our debt agreements; · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and · other business risks affecting our cash levels. We would not have had sufficient cash available for distribution to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all of our units for the years ended December 31, 2012 or 2013. We must generate approximately $18.3 million of cash available for distribution to pay the aggregate minimum quarterly distributions for four quarters on all units outstanding as of March 25, 2015. The amount of cash available for distribution that we generated during the year ended December 31, 2012 on a pro forma basis would have been sufficient to pay 100% of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution on all common units, and 16.4% of the aggregate minimum quarterly distributions on our subordinated units for that period. In addition, the amount of cash available for distribution that we generated during the year ended December 31, 2013 on a pro forma basis would have been sufficient to pay 100% of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution on all common units, and 54.2% of the aggregate minimum quarterly distributions on our subordinated units for that period. Our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution is subject to various restrictions and other factors described in more detail under “Item 5 – Market for Registration’s Common Equity, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Our Cash Distribution Policy.” If we are not able to generate additional cash for distribution to our unitholders in future periods, we may not be able to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution or any amount on our common or subordinated units, in which event the market price of our common units may decline materially. We serve customers who are involved in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas. Adverse developments affecting the oil and natural gas industry or drilling activity, including sustained low natural gas prices, a decline in oil or natural gas liquids prices, reduced demand for oil and natural gas products, adverse weather conditions, and increased regulation of drilling and production, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. W&ES depends on our oil and natural gas customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. A reduction in drilling activity generally results in decreases in the volumes of new flowback and produced water generated, which adversely impacts our revenues. Therefore, if these expenditures decline, our business is likely to be adversely affected. The level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry in the U.S. has been volatile. According to the Baker Hughes oil and gas drilling rig count, the U.S. weekly aggregate rig count reached an all-time high of 4,530 rigs in December 1981 and a post-1942 low of 488 rigs in April 1999. From January 2010 through February 2015, the aggregate U.S. weekly rig count has remained above 1,220 rigs, reaching a peak of 2,026 rigs in November 2011 and declining to 1,267 rigs in February 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2014 and continuing into 2015, the price of crude oil has dropped substantially. If crude oil prices do not recover, or take longer to recover than anticipated, exploration and production companies in the regions we conduct W&ES may reduce capital spending on maintaining or growing production. W&ES constitutes approximately 6% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Therefore, a continued decrease in drilling activity or hydraulic fracking could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Our customers’ willingness to engage in drilling and production of oil and natural gas depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as: 16 Table of Contents · the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, including fracturing services; · the expected rate of decline of current oil and natural gas production; · the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves; · available pipeline and other transportation capacity; · lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of personnel; · weather conditions, including hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires, drought or man-made disasters that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area, as well as local weather conditions such as unusually cold winters in the Bakken Shale region of the Williston Basin in North Dakota that can have a significant impact on drilling activity in that region; · domestic and worldwide economic conditions; · contractions in the credit market; · political instability in certain oil and natural gas producing countries; · the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including military action in the Middle East or other parts of the world; · governmental regulations, including income tax laws or government incentive programs relating to the oil and natural gas industry and the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; · the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and the available excess production capacity within OPEC; · oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency; · potential acceleration in the development, and the price and availability, of alternative fuels; · the availability of water resources for use in hydraulic fracturing operations; · public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest in, federal, state, and local governments to ban, stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing operations; · technical advances affecting energy consumption; · the access to and cost of capital for oil and natural gas producers; · merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers; and · the impact of changing regulations and environmental and safety rules and policies. The working capital needs of the PI&IS segment are substantial, which will reduce our borrowing capacity for other purposes and reduce our cash available for distribution. PI&IS has substantial working capital needs throughout the year as we pay the majority of our inspectors on a weekly basis, but typically receive payment from our customers 45 to 90 days after the services have been performed. We intend to make borrowings under our credit facility to fund the working capital needs of PI&IS, and these borrowings will reduce the amount of credit available for other uses, such as working capital for our water disposal business, acquisitions and growth projects, and increase interest expense, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Any cash generated from operations used to fund working capital needs will also reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Additionally, if we experience any delays in payment by our pipeline inspection and integrity services customers, we may be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to make further borrowings under our revolving credit facility or impact our ability to pay our minimum quarterly distributions. 17 Table of Contents Our business is dependent upon the willingness of our customers to outsource their waste management activities and pipeline inspection and integrity activities. Our business is largely dependent on the willingness of customers to outsource the treatment of their water and environmental services and pipeline inspection and integrity activities. Currently, many oil and natural gas producing companies own and operate waste treatment, recovery and SWD facilities, and some producers recycle saltwater on-site. In addition, most oilfield operators, including many of our customers, have numerous abandoned wells that could be licensed for use in the disposition of internally generated waste and third-party waste in competition with us. Additionally, technologies may be developed that could be used by our customers to recycle saltwater and to recover oil through oilfield waste processing. Furthermore, some pipeline owners and operators currently inspect and perform integrity activities on their own pipeline systems using the same techniques and technologies that we use, as well as others that we currently do not employ, such as pigging and aerial surveys. Our current customers could decide to process and dispose of their waste internally or inspect and perform integrity activities on their own pipeline systems, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our markets are highly competitive, and competition could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, demand for services, cash flows or our ability to make required payments on debt outstanding. We have many competitors in W&ES and PI&IS. Other companies offer similar third-party saltwater disposal or pipeline inspection and integrity services in our primary markets. Some of our customers also compete with us in the treatment and disposal sector by offering such services to other oil and natural gas companies. Our customers regularly evaluate the best combination of value and price from competing alternatives and new technologies and can move between alternatives or, in some cases, develop their own alternatives with relative ease. This competition influences the prices we charge and requires us to control our costs aggressively and maximize efficiency in order to maintain acceptable operating margins; however, we may be unable to do so and remain competitive on a cost-for-service basis. In addition, existing and future competitors may develop or offer services or new technologies that have pricing, location or other advantages over the services we provide, including a lower cost of capital. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, which subjects us to renewal or termination risks. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with customers. While we frequently operate under master services agreements with customers that set forth the terms on which we will provide services, customers operating under these agreements typically have the ability to terminate their relationship with us at any time at their sole discretion by ceasing to deliver saltwater to our SWD facilities or by choosing to not use us to provide pipeline inspection and integrity management services. Therefore, there is a heightened risk that our customers may decide not to dispose of their saltwater disposal through us or use our inspection and integrity services. The failure of customers to continue to use our services could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distribution to our unitholders. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of, or a material nonpayment by, our key customers could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 78% and 80% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the period from June 26, 2013 through December 31, 2013. There were three customers that accounted for more than 10% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014; Enbridge Energy Partners, Enterprise Products Partners and Plains All America Pipeline. For the period from June 26, 2013 through December 31, 2013, Enbridge Energy Partners and Enterprise Products Partners each individually made up more than 10% of consolidated revenues of PI&IS. Revenues from these customers resulted from inspection operations, which are activities conducted by our PI&IS segment. The loss of all, or even a portion of, the revenues from these customers, as a result of competition, market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Disruptions in the transportation services of trucking companies transporting saltwater could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We primarily depend on trucking companies to transport saltwater to our SWD facilities. In recent years, certain states, including North Dakota and Texas, and counties have increased enforcement of weight limits on trucks used to transport raw materials on their public roads. Also, as a result of regulations issued in March of 2014, all waste haulers transporting produced water in North Dakota must possess a valid permit for transporting solid waste from the North Dakota Department of Health to legally transport such wastes. It is possible that the states, counties and cities in which W&ES may modify their laws to further reduce truck weight limits, or impose curfews or other restrictions on the use of roadways. Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in delays in transporting saltwater to our SWD facilities and increased costs to transport saltwater to our facilities, which may either increase our operating costs or reduce the amount of saltwater transported to our SWD facilities. This could decrease our operating margins or amounts of saltwater disposed at our SWD facilities and thereby affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. 18 Table of Contents A significant increase in fuel or insurance prices may adversely affect the transportation costs of our trucking company customers, which could result in a decrease in the rates for our saltwater and environmental services they would be willing to pay. Fuel is a significant operating expense for our trucking customers, and a significant increase in fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to them. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, actions by oil and natural gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. A significant increase in fuel prices could drive down the prices our trucking company customers would be willing to pay, which would reduce our revenues and impact our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Insurance is a significant operating expense for our trucking customers, and a significant increase in insurance prices or decrease in availability of coverage results in increased transportation costs to them. Volumes of residual oil recovered during the saltwater water treatment process can vary. Any significant reduction in residual oil content in the water we treat, or the price we achieve for residual oil sales, will affect our recovery of residual oil and, therefore, our profitability. Approximately 22% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 in W&ES was derived from sales of residual oil recovered during the saltwater treatment process. Our ability to recover sufficient volumes of residual oil is dependent upon the residual oil content in the saltwater we treat, which is, among other things, a function of water type, chemistry, source and temperature. Generally, where outside temperatures are lower, there is less residual oil content and separation is more difficult. Thus, our residual oil recovery during the winter season is lower than our recovery during the summer season in North Dakota. Additionally, residual oil content will decrease if, among other things, producers begin recovering higher levels of residual oil in saltwater prior to delivering such saltwater to us for treatment. Also, the revenues we derive from sales of residual oil are subjected to fluctuations in the price of oil. Any reduction in residual crude oil content in the saltwater we treat or the prices we realize on our sales of residual oil could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our business may be difficult to evaluate because we have a limited period of historical financial and operating data. CEP LLC’s historical results for 2012 represents the results of only one of the water and environmental services companies we have acquired. The results of the other water and environmental services company that we acquired are only shown since the end of 2012. Furthermore, our full 2012 and the period prior to June 26, 2013 historical financial and operating data does not include PI&IS. As a result, we have provided only limited financial and operating data regarding the consolidated business that we operate. The historical financial and operating results of our business may be materially different from our future financial and operating results. Our future results will depend on our ability to efficiently manage our integrated operations and execute our business strategy. Our historical financial performance and that of CEP LLC should not be considered reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, we face challenges and uncertainties in financial and operational planning as a result of the limited access to historical data regarding volumes of oilfield waste treated and related sales and pricing. Our first facilities were opened during 2011, and other companies in the SWD industry do not regularly release historical data related to their SWD facilities. This limited data may make it more difficult for us and our investors to evaluate our business and prospects and to forecast our future operating results. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties, expenses and uncertainties associated with rapid growth and expansion. We have grown rapidly since our inception in 2012, primarily through acquisitions in both of our segments. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: · organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations; · administrative burdens; · impact of the Affordable Care Act and employee insurance; · limitations with systems and technology; · safety and training; · ability to recruit, train and retain personnel and managers; · ability to obtain permits for expanded operations; · access to debt and equity capital on attractive terms; and · long lead times associated with acquiring equipment and building any new facilities. 19 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. Our ability to grow in the future is dependent on our ability to access external growth capital. We will distribute all of our available cash after expenses and prudent operating reserves to our unitholders. We expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including borrowings under our credit facilities and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund growth capital expenditures. However, we may not be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. To the extent we are unable to efficiently finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. Furthermore, Holdings is under no obligation to fund our growth. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with the financing of other growth capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of borrowings or other debt by us to finance our growth strategy would result in interest expense, which in turn would affect the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our utilization of existing capacity, expansion of existing SWD facilities and construction or purchase of new SWD facilities may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. A portion of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to utilize available capacity at our existing facilities, expand existing SWD facilities and construct or purchase new SWD facilities. The construction of a new SWD facility or the extension, renovation or expansion of an existing SWD facility, such as by connecting the SWD facility to pipeline systems, involves numerous business, competitive, regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Furthermore, we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project although we will have to pay financing and construction costs during the construction period. As a result, new SWD facilities may not be able to attract enough demand for water and environmental services to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to acquire assets from Holdings or third parties is subject to risks and uncertainty. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Furthermore, we may not realize the benefits from or successfully integrate any acquisitions. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash we generate on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, both on our expectation of continuing consolidation in the industries in which we operate and our ability to acquire interests in additional assets from Holdings. Holdings is developing or seeking to purchase several water and environmental services assets and facilities that may be suitable to our operations in the future. We expect to have the opportunity to make acquisitions directly from Holdings and its affiliates in the future. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these assets will depend upon, among other things, Holdings’ and its affiliates’ willingness to offer these assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions with Holdings and its affiliates, and Holdings and its affiliates are under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, certain of these assets may require substantial capital expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulatory requirements or otherwise make them suitable for our commercial needs. For these or a variety of other reasons, we may decide not to acquire these assets from Holdings and its affiliates if, and when, Holdings and its affiliates offers such assets for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. Additionally, we may not be able to make accretive acquisitions from third parties if we are: ● unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts; ● unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; ● outbid by competitors; or ● for any other reason. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Holdings and its affiliates or third parties, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in cash flow. 20 Table of Contents Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · mistaken assumptions about disposal capacity, number and quality of inspectors, revenues and costs, cash flows, capital expenditures and synergies; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · integrating business operations or unforeseen regulatory issues; · unforeseen new regulations; · unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas; and · customer or key personnel losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We conduct a portion of our operations through entities that we partially own, which subjects us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We own a 51.0% interest in CES LLC, an arrangement with an affiliate of SBG Energy Services, LLC. We may also enter into other arrangements with third parties in the future. SBG Energy Services, LLC has, and other third parties in future arrangements may have, obligations that are important to the success of the arrangement, such as the obligation to pay their share of capital and other costs of these partially owned entities. The performance of these third-party obligations, including the ability of our current partners to satisfy their respective obligations, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under the arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint venture arrangements, including CES LLC, may involve risks not otherwise present without a partner, including, for example: · our CES LLC partner shares certain blocking rights over transactions between CES LLC and its affiliates, including us; · our partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; · although we control CES LLC, we owe contractual duties to CES LLC and its respective other owners, which may conflict with our interests and the interests of our unitholders; and · disputes between us and our partner may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or any failure to continue our joint venture or to resolve disagreements with our third-party partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such business, which would, in turn, negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Restrictions in our credit agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units. On December 24, 2013, we entered into our $120 million credit agreement, which we used to replace the TIR Entities’ existing revolving credit facility and mezzanine facilities. On October 21, 2014, the Credit Agreement was amended to increase the aggregate availability under the Credit Agreement from $120 million to $200 million. CEP-TIR and TIR LLC are also co-borrowers and co-guarantors under our credit agreement. Our credit agreement limits our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · make certain investments and acquisitions; · incur certain liens or permit them to exist; 21 Table of Contents · alter our line of business; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; · merge or consolidate with another company; and · transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. The credit agreement also contains certain covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure unitholders that it would meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our new and future credit agreements may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. For example, our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders may be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt. Our ability to service our debt may depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure unitholders that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or satisfy our capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our credit agreement or future debt agreements. Our new and future debt documents restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our new or future credit facilities could result in a default or an event of default that could enable its lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of its debt is accelerated, defaults under its other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of our investment. Please read “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information about our credit facilities. Our existing and future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2014, we had $77.6 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement. In February 2015, we borrowed an additional $52.6 million to acquire the remaining non-controlling interest in the TIR Entities. We will have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit agreement. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; · we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain or maintain the regulatory permits required to develop and operate our facilities and to dispose of certain types of waste. We own and operate SWD facilities in North Dakota and Texas, each with its own regulatory program for addressing the handling, treatment, recycling and disposal of saltwater. We are also required to comply with federal laws and regulations governing our operations. These environmental laws and regulations require that we, among other things, obtain permits and authorizations prior to the development and operation of waste treatment and storage facilities and in connection with the disposal and transportation of certain types of waste. The applicable regulatory agencies strictly monitor waste handling and disposal practices at all of our facilities. For many of our sites, we are required under applicable laws, regulations, and/or permits to conduct periodic monitoring, company-directed testing and third-party testing. Any failure to comply with such laws, regulations, or permits may result in suspension or revocation of necessary permits and authorizations, civil or criminal liability and imposition of fines and penalties, which could adversely impact our operations and revenues and ability to continue to provide oilfield water and environmental services to our customers. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining, be unable to obtain, or suffer the revocation of required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to be unable to serve customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. As of December 31, 2014, we have the required state and federal permits across the two states where we operate our SWD facilities. Regulatory agencies may impose more stringent or burdensome restrictions or obligations on our operations when we seek to renew or amend our permits. For example, permit conditions may limit the amount or types of waste we can accept, pressures, require us to make material expenditures to upgrade our facilities, implement more burdensome and expensive monitoring or sampling programs, or increase the amount of financial assurance that we provide to cover future facility closure costs. Moreover, nongovernmental organizations or the public may elect to protest the issuance or renewal of our permits on the basis of developmental, environmental or aesthetic considerations, which protests may contribute to a delay or denial in the issuance or reissuance of such permits. It is not uncommon for local property owners or, in some cases oil and natural gas producers, to oppose SWD permits. Any such limitations or requirements could limit the water and environmental services we provide to our customers, or make such services more expensive to provide, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Delays in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations could impair our business. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and to operate pipeline and gathering systems. Such permits are typically issued by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such drilling and completion, and pipeline and gathering, activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions that may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Recently, moratoriums on the issuance of permits for certain types of drilling and completion activities have been imposed in some areas, such as New York. Some of our customers’ drilling and completion activities may also take place on federal land or Native American lands, requiring leases and other approvals from the federal government or Native American tribes to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have cancelled proposed leases for federal lands and refused or delayed required approvals. Consequently, our customers’ operations in certain areas of the U.S. may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue to us and adversely affecting our results of operations in support of those customers. In the future we may face increased obligations relating to the closing of our SWD facilities and may be required to provide an increased level of financial assurance to guaranty the appropriate closure activities occur for an SWD facility. Obtaining a permit to own or operate an SWD facility generally requires us to establish performance bonds, letters of credit or other forms of financial assurance to address clean up and closure obligations at our SWD facilities. In particular, the regulatory agencies of the two states in which we operate require us to post letters of credit in connection with the operation of our SWD facilities. As we acquire additional SWD facilities or expand our existing SWD facilities, these obligations will increase. Additionally, in the future, regulatory agencies may require us to increase the amount of our closure bonds at existing SWD facilities. We have accrued approximately $33 thousand on our balance sheet related to our future closure obligations of our SWD facilities as of December 31, 2014. However, actual costs could exceed our current expectations, as a result of, among other things, federal, state or local government regulatory action, increased costs charged by service providers that assist in closing SWD facilities and additional environmental remediation requirements. Increased regulatory requirements regarding our existing or future SWD facilities, including the requirement to pay increased closure and post-closure costs or to establish increased financial assurance for such activities could substantially increase our operating costs and cause our available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders to decline. Changes in laws or government regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers’ costs of doing business, limit the areas in which our customers can operate and reduce oil and natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely impact our business. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but we do provide treatment and disposal services with respect to the fluids used and wastes generated by our customers in such operations, which are often necessary to drill and complete new wells and maintain existing wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, and proposals have been made to enact separate federal, state and local legislation that would increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing. SDWA regulates the underground injection of substances through the UIC program and exempts hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection.” Congress has in recent legislative sessions considered legislation to amend the SDWA including legislation that would repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. The U.S. Congress may consider similar SDWA legislation in the future. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the EPA, has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels in those states where EPA is the permitting authority. Also, in November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently plans to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. Further, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose federal Clean Water Act regulations governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. In addition, the DOI published a revised proposed rule on May 16, 2013 that would update existing regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including requirements for disclosure, well bore integrity and handling of flowback water. The DOI is expected to issue the final rule in 2015. Presently, hydraulic fracturing is regulated primarily at the state level, typically by state oil and natural gas commissions and similar agencies. Several states, including Texas and North Dakota, where we conduct our water and environmental services business, have either adopted or proposed laws and/or regulations to require oil and natural gas operators to disclose chemical ingredients and water volumes used to hydraulically fracture wells, in addition to more stringent well construction and monitoring requirements. The chemical ingredient information is generally available to the public via online databases including fracfocus.org, and this may bring more public scrutiny to hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, some local governments, most recently in Colorado, have passed or adopted ordinances and other laws that severely restrict and in some instances totally ban the practice within these jurisdictions. The EPA is conducting a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water. The EPA issued a Progress Report in December 2012 and a final draft report that compiles the results of various research projects is expected to be released in 2015 for peer review and public comment. As part of this study, the EPA requested that certain companies provide them with information concerning the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. This study or other studies that may be undertaken by the EPA or other governmental authorities, depending on their results, could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities and make it more difficult or costly for our customers to perform fracturing. Any such regulations limiting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing could reduce oil and natural gas exploration and production activities by our customers and, therefore, adversely affect our business. Such laws or regulations could also materially increase our costs of compliance and doing business by more strictly regulating how hydraulic fracturing wastes are handled or disposed. Oil and natural gas producers’ operations, especially those using hydraulic fracturing, are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water may incentivize water recycling efforts by oil and natural gas producers which would decrease the volume of saltwater delivered to our SWD facilities. Water is an essential component of oil and natural gas production during the drilling, and in particular, hydraulic fracturing, process. However, the availability of suitable water supplies may be limited for oil and natural gas producers due to reasons such as prolonged drought. For example, according to the Lower Colorado River Authority, during 2011, Texas experienced the lowest inflows of water of any year in recorded history. As a result of this severe drought, some local water districts have begun restricting the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supply. In response to continuing drought conditions in 2014 and 2013, the Texas Legislature considered a number of bills that would have mandated recycling of flowback and produced water and/or prohibits recyclable water from being disposed of in wells. If oil and natural gas producers in Texas are unable to obtain water to use in their operations from local sources they may be incentivized to recycle and reuse saltwater instead of delivering such saltwater to our Texas SWD facilities (or in other states that adopt similar programs). Similarly, mandatory recycling programs could reduce the amount of materials sent to us for treatment and disposal. Any such limits or mandates could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased attention to seismic activity associated with hydraulic fracturing and underground disposal could result in additional regulations and adversely impact demand for our services. There exists a growing concern that the injection of saltwater and other fluids into belowground disposal wells triggers seismic activity in certain areas. Recent seismic events have been observed in some areas where deep well fluid injection of drilling or hydraulic fracturing saltwater has taken place. Some scientists believe the increased seismic activity may result from deep well fluid injection of drilling or hydraulic fracturing saltwater. Some states, including Texas, Oklahoma and Ohio, have promulgated rules or guidance in response to these concerns. In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission (“TRC”) published a final rule in October 2014 governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that will require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the injected fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the TRC may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. These new seismic permitting requirements applicable to disposal wells impose more stringent permitting requirements and are likely to result in added costs to comply or, perhaps, may require alternative methods of disposing of salt water and other fluids, which could delay production schedules and also result in increased costs. Similar rules may be expected to be promulgated by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC). The OCC recently posted guidance for wells injecting into the Arbuckle formation. OCC is watching for indications that salt water injection may be contributing to significant seismic events and has recently temporarily shut in another producer's water disposal well due to a nearby 4.0 magnitude earthquake. Additional regulatory measures designed to minimize or avoid damage to geologic formations may be imposed to address such concerns. We and our customers may incur significant liability under, or costs and expenditures to comply with, environmental and worker health and safety regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change. Our and our customer’s operations are subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, protection of natural resources, wetlands, endangered species, the environment, worker health and safety, waste management, waste disposal, and transportation of waste and other materials. In the U.S., such laws and regulations include the RCRA, CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, SDWA, CAA, OPA, and OSHA, and analogous state laws. In Canada, industrial and natural resource extraction is currently subject to environmental regulations pursuant to a variety of provincial and federal legislation. Both federal and provincial governments can and do exercise regulatory responsibilities. Principal federal legislation includes the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, the Fisheries Act, the Prosperity Act, the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, and the Hazardous Products Act. The majority of industrial and natural resource extraction activities occur in Western Canada and Ontario where we currently operate, as well as in Quebec and Newfoundland and Labrador. The principal provincial laws and regulations which affect where we currently operate include, in Alberta, the Alberta Land Stewardship Act, the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act, and the Climate Change and Emissions Management Act. In British Columbia, these include the Environmental Management Act, the Environmental Assessment Act, the Oil and Gas Activities Act, the Environmental Protection and Management Regulation, the Carbon Tax Act, the Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Cap and Trade) Act, and the Oil and the Water Protection Act. In Saskatchewan, these include the Oil and Gas Conservation Act, and the Management and Reduction of Greenhouse Gasses Act. In Ontario, the principal provincial laws include the Environmental Protection Act, the Green Energy Act, the Ontario Water Resources Act and the Environmental Assessment Act. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customer’s operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers’ operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customer’s operations. 24 Table of Contents These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customer’s operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers’ operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customer’s operations. Compliance with this complex array of laws and regulations is difficult and may require us to make significant expenditures and a breach of such requirements may result in suspension or revocation of necessary licenses or authorizations, civil liability for, among other things, pollution damage and the imposition of material fines. Our customers’ operations may be subject to existing and future CAA permitting and regulatory requirements that could have a material effect on their operations. For example, on August 16, 2012, the EPA published final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations under the CAA and/or Canadian climate change control. The EPA’s rule package requires new standards on all hydraulically-fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. The rules also establish new emission requirements for compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks, natural gas processing and certain other equipment used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In Canada, Alberta’s Climate Change and Emissions Management Act as well as British Columbia’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Cap and Trade) Act impose requirements to reduce emission intensity, and in the case of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction (Cap and Trade) Act, impose absolute caps on greenhouse gas emissions. Saskatchewan’s Management and Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Act aims to adopt a goal of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. Certain other provinces including British Columbia, Manitoba and Ontario are parties to the Western Climate Initiative, which has established a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the region by 15% below 2005 levels, by 2020. Given the evolving nature of the debate related to climate control and control of greenhouse gases, compliance with these rules could result in significant costs to our customers, which may have an indirect adverse impact on our business. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state and provincial agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our and our customer’s operations. Under the terms of our amended and restated omnibus agreement, Holdings will indemnify us for certain potential claims, losses and expenses relating to environmental matters and associated with the operation of the assets contributed to us and occurring before the closing date of our IPO. However, the liability of Holdings for these indemnification obligations is subject to a $350,000 deductible. Moreover, our assets constitute a substantial portion of Holdings’ assets, and Holdings has not agreed to maintain any cash reserve to fund any indemnification obligations under our amended and restated omnibus agreement. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly requirements would not be covered by the environmental indemnity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. Our operations also pose risks of environmental liability due to leakage, migration, releases or spills from our operations to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Some environmental laws and regulations in both the U.S. and Canada may impose strict, joint and several liabilities in connection with releases of regulated substances into the environment. Therefore, in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, third parties. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time. We expect this trend to continue, which could lead to material increases in our costs for future environmental compliance and remediation, and could adversely affect our operations by restricting the way in which we treat and dispose of exploration and production, or E&P, waste or our ability to expand our business. In particular, the RCRA, which governs the disposal of solid and hazardous waste, currently exempts certain E&P wastes from classification as hazardous wastes. In recent years, proposals have been made to rescind this exemption from RCRA. For example, in September 2010 an environmental group filed a petition with the EPA requesting reconsideration of this RCRA exemption. To date, the EPA has not taken any action on the petition. If the exemption covering E&P wastes is repealed or modified, or if the regulations interpreting the rules regarding the treatment or disposal of this type of waste were changed, our operations could face significantly more stringent regulations, permitting requirements, and other restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may materially increase the healthcare costs attributable to us and, to the extent we are responsible for those increased costs, negatively impact our financial results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as other healthcare reform legislation considered by federal and state legislators could significantly impact our business. These health care reform laws require employers such as us, to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. We cannot predict the effects this legislation or any future state or federal healthcare legislation or regulation will have on our business because of the breadth and complexity of the legislation and because many of the rules, reforms and regulations required to implement these laws have not yet been adopted. However, we expect this legislation to materially increase the employee healthcare and other related costs attributable to us to the extent we become responsible for the full amount of our entire general and administrative services under our amended and restated omnibus agreement, which currently limits our corporate general and administrative services to an annual administrative fee of $4.04 million, as adjusted for inflation. As the provisions of this legislation are phased in over time, the resulting changes to our healthcare cost structure and any inability to effectively modify our programs and operations in response to this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We could incur significant costs in cleaning up contamination that occurs at our facilities. Petroleum hydrocarbons, saltwater, and other substances and wastes arising from E&P related activities have been disposed of or released on or under many of our sites. At some of our facilities, we have conducted and may continue to conduct monitoring, and we will continue to perform such monitoring and remediation of known contamination until the appropriate regulatory standards have been achieved. These monitoring and remediation efforts are usually overseen by state environmental regulatory agencies. Costs for such remediation activities may exceed estimated costs, and there can be no assurance that the future costs will not be material. It is possible that we may identify additional contamination in the future, which could result in additional remediation obligations and expenses, which could be material. We and our customers may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. In response to certain scientific studies suggesting that emissions of GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic conditions, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap-and-trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other GHGs endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA has already adopted two sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, both of which became effective in January 2011. The EPA’s rules relating to emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing or requiring state environmental agencies to implement the rules. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified GHG emission sources in the U.S., including oil and natural gas producer operations, on an annual basis. Additionally, on September 20, 2013, the EPA proposed New Source Performance Standards for Greenhouse Gas emissions from Electric Utility Generating Units and issued the proposed Clean Power Plan in June 2014 that would, among other things, limit GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. These actions represent increased government regulation of climate change-related issues and GHG emissions. We cannot predict which areas, if any, the EPA may choose to regulate with respect to GHG emissions next. Although it is not possible at this time to estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would impact our business, either directly or indirectly, any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions in areas where we operate could require us or our customers to incur increased operating costs. Regulation of GHGs could also result in a reduction in demand for and production of oil and natural gas, which would result in a decrease in demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations, but effects could be materially adverse. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could adversely affect or delay demand for the oil or natural gas produced by our customers or otherwise cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Certain plant or animal species could be designated as endangered or threatened, which could limit our ability to expand some of our existing operations or limit our customers’ ability to develop new oil and natural gas wells. ESA restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Many states also have analogous laws designed to protect endangered or threatened species. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species under such laws may affect our and our customers’ operations. 26 Table of Contents For example, the federal government is considering listing the greater sage-grouse, a species whose natural habitats coincide with some of our areas of operation and the areas of operation of some of our customers. Currently, greater sage-grouse are found in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, North Dakota, eastern California, Nevada, Utah, western Colorado, South Dakota and Wyoming. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, or “Service”, has concluded that the greater sage-grouse warrants protection under the ESA; however, the Service has determined that proposing the species for protection is precluded by the need to take action on other species facing more immediate and severe extinction threats. As a result, the greater sage-grouse will be placed on the list of species that are candidates for ESA protection. The lesser prairie-chicken, which currently occupies a five-state range that includes Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Kansas and Colorado was also listed as threatened in March 2014. The Service will review the status of these species annually, as it does with all candidate species, and will propose the species for protection when funding and workload priorities for other listing actions allow. Additionally, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the Service is required to make a determination on the listing of more than 250 species as endangered or threatened under the ESA by the end of the Service’s 2017 fiscal year. Another species, the dunes sagebrush lizard, which is found only in the active and semi-stable shinnery oak dunes of southeastern New Mexico and adjacent portions of Texas, was a candidate species for listing under the ESA by the Service for many years. On June 13, 2012, however, the Service declined to list the species as endangered under the ESA, and it is no longer a candidate species. Nevertheless, the species remains listed as endangered by the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, and thus is subject to certain protections under New Mexico state law. We have customers in New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming and North Dakota that have operations within the habitat of the greater sage-grouse and the lesser prairie-chicken, and our own operations are strategically located in proximity to our customers. To the extent these species, or other species that live in the areas where our operations and our customers’ operations are conducted, are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, this could limit our ability to expand our operations and facilities or could force us to incur material additional costs. Moreover, listing such species under the ESA or similar state laws could indirectly but materially affect our business by imposing constraints on our customers’ operations. We must comply with worker health and safety laws and regulations at our facilities and in connection with our operations and failure to do so could result in significant liability and/or fines and penalties. Our activities are subject to a wide range of national, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These health and safety laws are subject to change, as are the priorities of those who enforce them. Failure to comply with these health and safety laws and regulations could lead to third-party claims, criminal and regulatory violations, civil fines and changes in the way we operate our facilities, which could increase the cost of operating our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our safety and compliance record is important to our clients and can materially impact our business. Changes in the provincial royalty rates and drilling incentive programs in Canada could decrease the oil and gas exploration and pipeline activities in Canada, which could adversely affect the demand for our pipeline inspection services. Certain provincial governments collect royalties on the production from lands owned by the government of Canada. These fiscal royalty regimes are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the respective provincial governments for appropriateness and competitiveness. Any increase in the royalty rates assessed by, or any decrease in the drilling incentive programs offered by, a provincial government could negatively affect the drilling activity and the need for pipelines and gathering systems, which could adversely affect the demand for our pipeline inspection services. Our business involves many hazards, operational risks and regulatory uncertainties, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Risks inherent to our industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, explosions, earthquakes, lightning strikes and incidents related to the handling of fluids and wastes, can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, damage to formations, damage to facilities, business interruption and damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment. We use fiberglass tanks at our SWD facilities because fiberglass is less corrosive than other materials traditionally utilized. These tanks are, however, more prone to lighting strikes than traditional tanks, as a result of fiberglass’ tendency to store static electricity. The lightning protection systems we employ may not succeed in preventing lightning from damaging a facility. The risks associated with these types of accidents could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. For instance, while our insurance policies apply to and cover costs imposed on us by retroactive changes in governmental regulations, the costs we incur as a result of such regulatory changes cannot be known in advance and may exceed our coverage limitations. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable and commercially justifiable and insurance may not continue to be available on terms as favorable as our current arrangements. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In some cases, electrical storms can damage facility motors or electronics, and it may not be possible to prove to the insurance carrier that such storm caused the damage. We do not carry business interruption insurance on our SWD facilities and as a result, could suffer a significant loss in revenue that could impact our ability to pay distributions on our units. 27 Table of Contents Accidents or incidents related to the handling of hydraulic fracturing fluids, saltwater or other wastes are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage or environmental damage and clean-up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event, provided that we report the event within 30 days after its commencement. The coverage applies to incidents the company is legally obligated to pay resulting from pollution conditions caused by covered operations. We may not have coverage if the operator is unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the “occurrence” to the insurance company within the required time frame. Although we have coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events at certain locations, this coverage does not extend to all places where we may be located or where we may do business. We also may have liability exposure if any pipelines or gathering systems transporting water to our SWD facilities develop a leak depending upon the terms of the contracts. A failure by our employees to follow applicable procedures and guidelines or on-site accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business. We require our employees to comply with various internal procedures and guidelines, including an environmental management program and worker health and safety guidelines. The failure by our employees to comply with our internal environmental, health and safety guidelines could result in personal injuries, property damage or non-compliance with applicable governmental laws and regulations, which may lead to fines, remediation obligations or third-party claims. Any such fines, remediation obligations, third-party claims or losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, on-site accidents can result in injury or death to our or other contractors’ employees or damage to our or other contractors’ equipment and facilities and damage to other people, truck drivers, area residents and property. Any fines or third-party claims resulting from any such on-site accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, while an inspector is performing pipeline inspection or integrity services for TIR LLC, the inspector is considered an employee of TIR LLC and is eligible for workers’ compensation claims if the inspector is injured or killed while working for TIR LLC. As the inspectors generally travel to and from projects in their own vehicles, TIR LLC may be responsible for workers compensation claims or third-party claims arising out of vehicle accidents, which could negatively affect our results of operation. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new business is dependent on many factors, including our ability to demonstrate that we can reliably and safely operate our business and stay current on constantly changing rules, regulations, training, and laws. Existing and potential customers consider the safety record of their service providers to be of high importance in their decision to engage third-party servicers. If one or more accidents were to occur at one of our operating sites, or pipelines or gathering systems we inspect, the affected customer may seek to terminate or cancel its use of our facilities or services and may be less likely to continue to use our services. In addition, it is possible that we will experience numerous or particularly severe accidents in the future, causing our safety record to deteriorate. This may be more likely as we continue to grow, if we experience high employee turnover or labor shortage, or add inexperienced personnel. In addition, we could be subject to liability for damages as a result of such accidents and could incur penalties or fines for violations of applicable safety laws and regulations. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our customers’ drilling and production activities, and therefore the amount of drilling and production waste provided to us for treatment and disposal. Management cannot predict the impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the areas in which we are located could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our SWD facilities are located exclusively in North Dakota and Texas. This concentration could disproportionately expose us to operational, economic and regulatory risk in these areas. Additionally, our SWD facilities currently comprise ten owned and three other managed facilities. Any operational, economic or regulatory issues at a single facility could have a material adverse impact on us. Due to the lack of diversification in our assets and the location of our assets, adverse developments in the our markets, including, for example, transportation constraints, adverse regulatory developments, or other adverse events at one of our SWD facilities, could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if we were more diversified. New technology, including those involving recycling of saltwater or the replacement of water in fracturing fluid, may hurt our competitive position. The saltwater disposal industry is subject to the introduction of new waste treatment and disposal techniques and services using new technologies including those involving recycling of saltwater, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. For example, some companies have successfully used propane as the fracturing fluid instead of water. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or products at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. New technology could also make it easier for our customers to vertically integrate their operations or reduce the amount of waste produced in oil and natural gas drilling and production activities, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for third-party disposal. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Technology advancements in connection with alternatives to hydraulic fracturing could decrease the demand for our SWD facilities. Some oil and natural gas producers are focusing on developing and utilizing non-water fracturing techniques, including those utilizing propane, carbon dioxide or nitrogen instead of water. If our producing customers begin to shift their fracturing techniques to waterless fracturing in the development of their wells, our saltwater disposal services could be materially impacted as these wells would not produce flowback water. In particular, our SWD facilities in west Texas could be negatively affected by these new technologies, as the drought conditions of west Texas make fracturing with materials other than water attractive alternatives. We may be unable to ensure that customers will continue to utilize our services or facilities and pay rates that generate acceptable margins for us. We cannot ensure that customers will continue to pay rates that generate acceptable margins for us. Our margins for W&ES could decrease if the volume of saltwater processed and disposed of by our customers’ decreases or if we are unable to increase the rates charged to correspond with increasing costs of operations. Our revenues and profitability for PI&IS could decrease if the demand for our inspectors decrease, if our safety record declines and we are unable to obtain affordable insurance, if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified inspectors or if we are unable to increase the daily and hourly rates charged to correspond with increasing costs of operations. In addition, new agreements for our services in both of these business segments entered into by us may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us or, if obtained, may not be obtained on terms consistent with current practices, in which case our revenue and profitability could decline. We also cannot ensure that the parties from whom we lease, license or otherwise occupy the land on which certain of our facilities are situated, or the parties from whom we lease certain of our equipment, will renew our current leases, licenses or other occupancy agreements upon their expiration on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any such failure to honor the terms of the leases or licenses or renew our current leases or licenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers. The delivery of our water and environmental services and products requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. The saltwater disposal industry has experienced a high rate of employee turnover as a result of the volatility of the oilfield service industry and the demanding nature of the work, and workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a less demanding work environment. In addition, PI&IS is dependent on the TIR Entities’ specialized inspectors, who must undergo specific training prior to performing inspection services. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of groups of our employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. In addition, the U.S. customers in PI&IS could choose to hire TIR LLC’s inspectors directly. If any of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if affiliates of our general partner fail to attract and retain key management personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and other key management personnel, all of whom are employees of affiliates of our general partner. Additionally, neither we nor our subsidiaries have employees. CEM LLC and its affiliates are responsible for providing the employees and other personnel necessary to conduct our operations. All of the employees that conduct our business are employed by affiliates of our general partner, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Peter C. Boylan III, and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, G. Les Austin. The loss of any member of our management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consequently, our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on the continued ability of affiliates of our general partner to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with industry experience. Competition for these persons is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ our senior executives and other key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to retain or attract our senior executives and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. 29 Table of Contents Our business would be adversely affected if we or our customers experience significant interruptions. We are dependent upon the uninterrupted operations of our SWD facilities for the processing of saltwater, as well as the operations of third-party facilities, such as our oil and natural gas producing customers, for uninterrupted demand of our water and environmental services. Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from the third-party facilities to our SWD facilities for any reason would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned or operated by our customers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control, such as: · catastrophic events, including hurricanes, seismic activity such as earthquakes, lightning strikes, fires and floods; · loss of electricity or power; · explosion, breakage, loss of power, accidents to machinery, storage tanks or facilities; · leaks in packers and tubing below the surface, failures in cement or casing or ruptures in the pipes, valves, fittings, hoses, pumps, tanks, containment systems or houses that lead to spills or employee injuries; · environmental remediation; · pressure issues that limit or restrict our ability to inject water into the disposal well or limitations with the injection zone formation and its permeability or porosity that could limit or prevent disposal of additional fluids; · labor difficulties; · malfunctions in automated control systems at the facilities; · disruptions in the supply of saltwater to our facilities; · failure of third-party pipelines, pumps, equipment or machinery; and · governmental mandates, restrictions or rules and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we are adequately insured against such risks. As a result, our revenue and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The seasonal nature of the oilfield service industry in Canada may negatively affect us and our customers. In Canada, the level of activity in the oilfield services industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. As warm weather returns in the spring, the winter’s frost comes out of the ground (commonly referred to as “spring break up”) rendering many secondary roads incapable of supporting heavy loads, and as a result road bans are implemented prohibiting heavy loads from being transported in certain areas. As a result, the movement of the heavy equipment required for drilling and well servicing activities is restricted and the level of activity of our Canadian operations and the operations of our customers are consequently reduced. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by depreciation, amortization, impairment loss and other non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our credit facilities or future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 30 Table of Contents A failure in our operational and communications systems, loss of power, natural disasters, or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third-parties, may adversely affect our financial results. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and a substantial number of transactions. If any of our financial, operational or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational or financial systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Due to technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our business. We use computer programs to help run our financial and operations processes, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, communications systems, our customers or any of our financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber-attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss and may negatively impact our reputation. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or “Section 404”. For example, Section 404 requires, among other things, us to annually review and report on, and (except as described below) our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. We currently utilize two distinct accounting systems for our business, one for the TIR Entities and one for the remainder of our business. We may experience difficulties consolidating these accounting systems, or may be delayed in implementing our plan to consolidate these systems, and any such difficulties or delay may impact our ability to timely file reports with the SEC and/or to comply with the covenants under our current and future credit facilities. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis, and we are required to assess the effectiveness of our controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the closing of our IPO. Even if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. A sustained failure of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. An enterprise-wide information system will be developed and integrated into our operations. If our information technology systems are disrupted due to problems with the integration of our information system or otherwise, we may face difficulties in generating timely and accurate financial information. Such a disruption to our information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the implementation of our enterprise-wide information system. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates, including Holdings, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Holdings, and Holdings is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us. Holdings and its affiliates own a 58.8% limited partner interest in us and own and control our general partner and appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Holdings. Conflicts of interest may arise between Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Holdings, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: 31 Table of Contents ● neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Holdings to invest in competitors, pursue and grow particular markets, or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. Holdings’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of Holdings; ● our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Holdings, in resolving conflicts of interest; ● Holdings may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests; ● our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner’s liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; ● except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; ● our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; ● expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus, and whether to set aside cash for future maintenance capital expenditures on certain of our assets that will need extensive repairs during their useful lives. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; ● our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; ● our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; ● our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $10.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; ● our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; ● our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; ● our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the common units; ● our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; ● our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and ● our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Please read “Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions – Conflicts of Interest and Duties.” 32 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in our indebtedness, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: · how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its affiliates; · whether to exercise its limited call right; · whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner; · how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; · whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; · whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights or any units it owns to a third party; and · whether or not to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Please read “Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions – Conflicts of Interest and Duties.” Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that counterparties to such agreements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets or any affiliate of our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained terms that are more favorable without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. 33 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: · provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of our partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in intentional fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful; and · provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Please read “Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions – Conflicts of Interest and Duties.” Cost reimbursements and fees due to Holdings for services provided to us or on our behalf following the expiration of our amended and restated omnibus agreement could be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our amended and restated omnibus agreement, prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will pay Holdings a quarterly administrative fee of $1.01 million for the provision of certain general and administrative expenses. This fee is subject to increase by an amount equal to the producer price index plus one percent or, with the concurrence of the conflicts committee, in the event of an expansion of our operations, including through acquisitions or internal growth. The amount of this fee is below the amount we would expect to reimburse the general partner for such services in the absence of the fee. In the event of termination of our amended and restated omnibus agreement, in lieu of the quarterly fee, we will be required by our partnership agreement to reimburse Holdings and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations, at which time we expect our payment for these services to increase. This increase may be substantial. Our partnership agreement provides that Holdings will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. Furthermore, Holdings and its affiliates will allocate other expenses related to our operations to us and may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by Holdings. Payments to Holdings and its affiliates following the expiration of our amended and restated omnibus agreement could be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have “say-on-pay” advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the member of our general partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Holdings and its affiliates own 58.8% of the common units and subordinated units (excluding common units purchased by certain of our officers, directors and other affiliates in our IPO). Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and common units and subordinated units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units, and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. 34 Table of Contents “Cause” is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of our subordinated units to common units. Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Holdings to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ existing ownership interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Holdings: · management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current general partner; and · affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Holdings or its unitholders, directors or officers may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Holdings and CEP-TIR hold 1,344,650 common units and 5,612,699 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Holdings and CEP-TIR with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. 35 Table of Contents Our general partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, including, but not limited to, Holdings, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Neither our partnership agreement nor our amended and restated omnibus agreement will prohibit Holdings or any other affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including Holdings. Any such entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Moreover, except for the obligations set forth in our amended and restated omnibus agreement, neither Holdings nor any of its affiliates have a contractual obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase additional assets from it, and we are unable to predict whether or when such an offer may be presented and acted upon. As a result, competition from Holdings and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. Our right of first offer on certain of Holdings’ assets is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets. Our amended and restated omnibus agreement provides us with a right of first offer on certain assets owned by and ownership interests held by Holdings and its subsidiaries that they decide to sell during the five-year period following the closing of our IPO. The consummation and timing of any acquisition by us of the assets covered by our right to first offer will depend upon, among other things, our ability to reach an agreement with Holdings on price and other terms and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance whether, when or on what terms we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and Holdings is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make or to enter into any commercial agreements with us. For these or a variety of other reasons, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer when we are permitted to do so, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. In addition, our right of first offer may be, upon a change of control of our general partner, or by agreement between us and Holdings, terminated by Holdings at any time after it no longer controls our general partner. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on unitholders’ investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Holdings and its affiliates own approximately 22.7% of our common units (excluding any common units purchased by certain of our officers, directors and other affiliates in our IPO). At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units by us (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 58.8% of our outstanding common units (excluding any common units purchased by certain of our officers, directors and other affiliates in our IPO) and therefore would not be able to exercise the call right at that time. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. There are only 4,312,500 publicly traded common units held by our public unitholders. Holdings and CEP-TIR own 1,344,650 common units and 5,612,699 subordinated units, representing an aggregate 58.8% limited partner interest in us. We do not know how liquid our trading market might be. Additionally, the lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. 36 Table of Contents Our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time units are outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of such distribution did not exceed the adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units trade on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE’s shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood that Holdings, which owns our general partner, will sell or contribute additional assets to us, as Holdings would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. A unitholder’s liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if a unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 37 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to a unitholder. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to a unitholder would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, counties or cities, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state, county or city law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states, countries or cities. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to a unitholder. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress and the President propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and for incentive distributions to our general partner. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of unitholders’ common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. 38 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, such unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. The TIR Entities conduct activities that may not generate qualifying income, and we conduct these activities in a separate subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Corporate federal income tax paid by this subsidiary reduces our cash available for distribution. In order to maintain our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year must be qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. To ensure that 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year is qualifying income, we currently conduct the portion of our business related to these operations in a separate subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We estimate that these operations will represent approximately 9% of the combined gross margin of the PI&IS segment for 2015. This corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which reduces the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that any corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. We are in the process of requesting a ruling from the IRS upon which, if granted, we may rely with respect to the qualifying nature of the income from certain activities conducted by TIR LLC. If we do not obtain a favorable ruling from IRS, we will be required to continue to conduct these activities in a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is subject to corporate-level income taxes. We are in the process of requesting a ruling from the IRS upon which, if granted, we may rely with respect to the qualifying nature of the income from certain activities conducted by TIR LLC. If the IRS is unwilling or unable to provide a favorable ruling with respect to such income, we will continue to be subject to corporate-level tax on the revenues generated by such activities. Conversely, if the IRS does provide a favorable ruling, we may choose to conduct such activities in the future in a tax pass-through entity. Such restructuring may result in a significant, one-time tax liability and other costs, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code and referred to as “Treasury Regulations.” A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. However, the U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner for purposes of determining our incentive distributions. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner, in its capacity as holder of our incentive distribution rights, and certain of our unitholders. 39 Table of Contents A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50.0% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, a unitholder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property or conduct business in many states, most of which impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Unitholders should consult their tax advisors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 40 Table of Contents 