ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Company’s business activities. Other risks are described in “Part I. Item 1. Business—Competition and Markets” and “—Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry,” and “Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. The Company’s business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and impair the Company’s ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. In that case, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline. Oil, NGL and natural gas prices are volatile and have recently declined significantly. If oil, NGL and natural gas prices do not improve or decline further, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments may be materially and adversely affected.The prices we receive for our oil, NGLs and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, operating results, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, NGLs and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. On February 10, 2015, the WTI posted price for crude oil was $50.06 per barrel and the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas was $2.67 per MMBtu, representing decreases of 53% and 57%, respectively, from the high of $106.91 per barrel of oil and $6.15 per MMBtu for natural gas during 2014. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. If the prices of oil, NGL and natural gas decline further, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, NGL and natural gas reserves may be materially and adversely affected. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control and include the following:• worldwide and regional economic conditions affecting the global supply and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas;• the ability of members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;• the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, NGLs and natural gas;• political and economic conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;• the level of global exploration and production;• the level of global inventories;• prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate;• the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;• localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;• the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;• weather conditions and other natural disasters;• technological advances affecting energy consumption;• the price and availability of alternative fuels;• expectations about future commodity prices; and• domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.17Table of ContentsLower commodity prices may reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves as existing reserves are depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of oil, NGLs and natural gas that we can produce economically and a significant portion of our exploitation, development and exploration projects could become uneconomic. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.We enter into derivative instrument contracts from time to time for a portion of our production. As of December 31, 2014, we had entered into hedging contracts through December 31, 2015 covering a total of approximately 2,457 MBbls of our projected oil production. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:• production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;• the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;• there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or• there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates.As of December 31, 2014, the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $75.7 million. Any default by the counterparties, to these derivative contracts when they become due, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Our exploitation, development and exploration projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow reserves.The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploitation, development and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Our 2015 capital budget for drilling, completion, recompletion and infrastructure is currently estimated to be approximately $400 million to $450 million. Our capital budget excludes acquisitions. We expect to fund 2015 capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and possibly offerings of our debt and equity securities. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, NGL, and natural gas prices; actual drilling results; the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:• the prices at which our production is sold;• the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;• our proved reserves;18Table of Contents• our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;• the levels of our operating expenses; and• our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our ability to access the capital markets.If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:• landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;• staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;• running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and• being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following:• the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;• the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and• the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. Furthermore, the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write‑downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high‑risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend, in part, on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “-Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.19Table of ContentsFurther, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:• delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, discharge of GHGs and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;• pressure or irregularities in geological formations;• shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;• equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;• lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;• lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;• adverse weather conditions;• issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;• environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;• declines in oil and natural gas prices;• limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;• title problems; and• limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long‑term production rates. In addition, stated recovery efficiencies may vary from projected rates and production declines may deviate from current estimates and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. We may also adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of exploration and development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors.You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate.20Table of ContentsOur Effective Horizontal Acreage is based on our and other operators’ current drilling results and our interpretation of available geologic and engineering data and therefore is an inexact estimate subject to various uncertainties.Our Effective Horizontal Acreage is what we believe to be our acreage position that is prospective for hydrocarbon production across our target horizontal zones underneath our total surface acreage of 62,448 gross (47,014 net) acres. Our belief is based upon our evaluation of our initial horizontal drilling results and those of other operators in our area to date, combined with our interpretation of available geologic and engineering data. Although we believe this acreage metric more accurately conveys our horizontal drilling opportunities in our target zones, and we believe our analysis of engineering, geological, geochemical and seismic data is based on industry standards, our calculation of our Effective Horizontal Acreage is an inexact estimate. We cannot assure you that all, or any portion of our Effective Horizontal Acreage, is prospective for our target zones, that any portion of our Effective Horizontal Acreage will ever be drilled or that, if drilled, will result in commercially productive wells.Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi‑year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.As of December 31, 2014, we had identified 2,064 horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on approximately 500 to over 1,000 foot spacing between wells in the same horizontal zone. Additionally, based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data as of December 31, 2014, we had 403 identified vertical drilling locations on 40‑acre spacing and an additional 803 identified vertical drilling locations based on 20‑acre downspacing. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of our drilling locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See “-Our exploitation, development and exploration projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow reserves.” Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations.Adverse weather conditions may negatively affect our operating results and our ability to conduct drilling activities.Adverse weather conditions may cause, among other things, increases in the costs of, and delays in, drilling or completing new wells, power failures, temporary shut‑in of production and difficulties in the transportation of our oil, NGLs and natural gas. Any decreases in production due to poor weather conditions will have an adverse effect on our revenues, which will in turn negatively affect our cash flow from operations.Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water and sand. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water or sand may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Water and sand are essential components of deep shale oil and natural gas production processes. Our ability to obtain water and sand for our operations may be affected by the price of water and sand, the availability of transportation and other market conditions. Additionally, drought conditions have persisted in Texas over the past several years, which have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water or sand to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.21Table of ContentsOur producing properties are located in the Permian Basin of West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of West Texas. At December 31, 2014, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, NGLs or natural gas.The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production is transported from the wellhead to our tank batteries by owned and third party gathering systems. Our purchasers then transport the oil by truck or pipeline for transportation. Our natural gas production is generally transported by gathering lines from the wellhead to a gas processing facility. We do not control these trucks and other third party transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production. Any such shut in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced.As of December 31, 2014, 61% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves. Further, we may be required to write down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within five years after their respective dates of booking.If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will be required to take write‑downs of the carrying values of our properties.Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A writedown constitutes a non‑cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploitation, development and exploration 22Table of Contentsactivities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserve base and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production.We normally sell our production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in the exploration, development and production business. For the year ended December 31, 2014, four purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of our revenue: Diamondback E&P, LLC (14%), Shell Trading (US) Company (31%), Enterprise Crude Oil LLC (24%) and Permian Transport & Trading (21%). For the year ended December 31, 2013, four purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of our revenue: Plains Marketing, L.P. (13%), Shell Trading (US) Company (40%), Enterprise Crude Oil LLC (14%) and Diamondback E&P LLC (11%). The loss or significant reduction in commitment of any of these purchasers could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the short‑term.Domestic and global economic conditions, especially in the energy industry, are volatile and there is the possibility that lenders could react by tightening credit. These conditions and factors may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes.Moreover, our contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us due to the volatile market or other reasons. If a counterparty is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase oil, NGLs or gas from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable. Furthermore, the inability of our contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us and third parties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, worker health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting regulated drilling activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve taking difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons, or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us 23Table of Contentsto material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:• environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;• abnormally pressured formations;• mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;• fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;• personal injuries and death;• natural disasters; and• terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:• injury or loss of life;• damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;• pollution and other environmental damage;• regulatory investigations and penalties;• suspension of our operations; and• repair and remediation costs.We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro‑seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area 24Table of Contentswill not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:• unexpected drilling conditions;• title problems;• pressure or lost circulation in formations;• equipment failure or accidents;• adverse weather conditions;• compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and• increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.In the future we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may be unable to complete the acquisition, or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, successfully completing acquisitions.The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 6.625% senior notes due 2022 (the "notes") impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including city ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. These land use restrictions could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells.The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being 25Table of Contentsdrilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. If we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire. Equipment shortages could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.Under the EP Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non‑FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti‑market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as described in “Part I. Item 1. Business-Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.”Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require preconstruction and operating permits for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for their GHG emissions must meet “best available control technology” standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case‑by‑case basis. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs. These programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In addition, the Obama Administration is expected to release a series of new regulations on the oil and gas industry in 2016, including federal standards limiting methane emissions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. Also, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. In addition, in May 2013, the BLM of the U.S. Department of the Interior published a revised proposed rule that would impose requirements for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal 26Table of Contentslands, including new requirements relating to public disclosure, as well as well bore integrity and handling of flowback water. Furthermore, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. It is unclear how any federal disclosure requirements that add to any applicable state disclosure requirements already in effect may affect our operations.We may be subject to regulations that restrict our ability to discharge water produced as part of our production operations, and the ability to use injection wells as a disposal option not only will depend on federal or state regulations but also on whether available injection wells have sufficient storage capacities. For example, the EPA is developing effluent limitation guidelines that may impose federal pre‑treatment standards on all oil and natural gas operators transporting wastewater associated with hydraulic fracturing activities to publicly owned treatment works for disposal. The EPA plans to propose such standards sometime in 2015.Further, the EPA has promulgated final rules that subject all oil and natural gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the NSPS and NESHAPS programs. These rules include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically‑fractured gas wells. The standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program along with pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards are applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells and wells that are refractured. Further, the rules under NESHAPS include Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“MACT”) for glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major source of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. The EPA received numerous requests for reconsideration of these rules and court challenges were also filed. The EPA intends to issue revised rules that are likely responsive to some of these requests. For example, in September 2013 the EPA published an amendment extending compliance dates for certain storage vessels. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or the cost to comply with such requirements with any certainty.In addition, certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration‑wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has also commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on water resources and expects to make the final report available for public comment and peer review sometime in 2015. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing and could ultimately make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, the Texas Railroad Commission has issued a “well integrity rule,” that includes requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past three years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the 27Table of Contentsfuture in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion and have a limited operating history.We have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our management believes that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:• increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;• increased administrative burden;• increased capital requirements; and• increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations.Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history.RSP LLC was formed in October 2010 by our management team and an affiliate of Natural Gas Partners, a family of energy-focused private equity investment funds. As a result, there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base your evaluation of our performance.Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:• recoverable reserves;• future oil, NGL and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;• operating costs; and• potential environmental and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing 28Table of Contentsor potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis.Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on oil and natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation.The Fiscal Year 2016 Budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in Congress that would implement many of these proposals. Such changes include, but are not limited to: (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities for oil and natural gas production; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective.The passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.Even when properly used and interpreted, 2‑D and 3‑D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3‑D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical.Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate.Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd Frank Act”), enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over the counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the effect of any such regulations will be on the 29Table of ContentsCompany. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon the Company’s business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters, and reduce the Company’s ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company’s results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. The Company’s revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition.The standardized measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. Therefore, the standardized measure of our estimated reserves included in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves.We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results may be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results.Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and our largest stockholders or their respective affiliates, on the other hand, concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities.Four of our largest stockholders, Production Opportunities II. L.P., Collins, Wallace LP and ACTOIL (our “Principal Investors”), collectively hold approximately 46% of our common stock as of December 31, 2014, and their interests may conflict with yours. Certain Principal Investors and certain of their affiliates have made and may continue to make investments in the U.S. oil and gas industry from time to time. As a result, our Principal Investors or their respective affiliates have and may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers. Our Principal Investors or their respective affiliates may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue.30Table of ContentsAny significant reduction in our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine on a semi‑annual basis based, among other things, upon projected revenues from, and asset values of, the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is currently $500 million, with lender commitments of $1 billion.In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender’s portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our revolving credit facility and the notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our revolving credit facility and indenture governing the notes currently restricts our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is currently $500 million. Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur on May 1, 2015. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender’s portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business prospects and our ability to make payments on our debt obligations.As of December 31, 2014, we had $500 million of notes outstanding, $0.4 million of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and $499.6 million of borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:31Table of Contents• require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities;• limit management’s discretion in operating our business and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;• increase our vulnerability to downturns and adverse developments in our business and the economy generally;• limit our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness;• place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;• make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then‑outstanding bank borrowings;• make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility may vary with prevailing interest rates;• place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and• make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations.We may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks we face.Subject to the restrictions in our credit facility and indenture governing the notes, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness (including secured indebtedness) in the future. Although our credit facility and indenture governing the notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to waiver and a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.Any increase in our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation, whether:• we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness;• increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and• depending on the levels of our outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited.We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our leverage position.An element of our business strategy involves maintaining a disciplined approach to financial management. However, we are also seeking to acquire, exploit and develop additional reserves that may require the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Although we will seek to maintain or improve our leverage position, our ability to maintain or reduce our level of indebtedness depends on a variety of factors, including future performance and our future debt financing needs. General economic conditions, oil, NGL and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors will also affect our ability to maintain or improve our leverage position. Many of these factors are beyond our control.32Table of ContentsOur revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes have restrictive covenants that could limit our growth, financial flexibility and our ability to engage in certain activities.Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes have restrictive covenants that could limit our growth, financial flexibility and our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long‑term best interests. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain covenants, that, among other things, limit our ability to:• incur additional indebtedness;• make loans to others;• make investments;• merge or consolidate with another entity;• make dividends and certain other payments;• hedge future production or interest rates;• create liens that secure indebtedness;• sell assets;• enter into transactions with affiliates; and• engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios, which may limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of these limitations. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed.If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest, or special interest, if any, on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default:the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest;the lenders under our revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; andwe could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers under our revolving credit facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our revolving credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.33Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.