Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the information in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” and the following risks before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessNatural gas, NGL and oil prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.The prices we receive for our natural gas production heavily influence, and to the extent we produce oil and NGLs in the future, the prices we receive for oil and NGL production will heavily influence, our revenue, operating results profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Natural gas, NGLs and oil are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities market has been volatile. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:•worldwide and regional economic conditions affecting the global supply of and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil;•the price and quantity of imports of foreign natural gas, including liquefied natural gas;•political conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;•the level of global exploration and production;•the level of global inventories;•prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate and expectations about future commodity prices;•the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities, and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices;•localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;•weather conditions and natural disasters;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;•speculative trading in natural gas and crude oil derivative contracts;•risks associated with operating drilling rigs;•the price and availability of competitors’ supplies of natural gas and oil and alternative fuels; and•domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.Furthermore, the worldwide financial and credit crisis in recent years has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide resulting in a slowdown in economic activity and recession in parts of the world. This has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower natural gas, NGL and oil prices.In addition, substantially all of our natural gas production is sold to purchasers under contracts with market-based prices based on New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) Henry Hub prices. The actual prices realized from the sale of natural gas differ from the quoted NYMEX Henry Hub price as a result of location differentials. Location differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub prices, also known as basis differentials, result from variances in regional natural gas prices compared to NYMEX Henry Hub prices as a result of regional supply and demand factors. We may experience differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub prices in the future, which may be material.28Lower commodity prices and negative increases in our differentials will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves as existing reserves are depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can produce economically.If commodity prices further decrease or our negative differentials further increase, a significant portion of our development and exploration projects could become uneconomic. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices or an increase in our negative differentials may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.Our development and exploration projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our natural gas reserves.The natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the development and acquisition of natural gas reserves. In 2014, excluding $100.0 million cash paid with respect to the Marcellus JV Buy-In and approximately $110.0 million expected to be paid with respect to the Momentum Acquisition, we plan to invest $1,230.0 million in our operations, including $430.0 million for drilling and completion in the Marcellus Shale, $150.0 million for drilling and completion in the Utica Shale, $385.0 million for leasehold acquisitions and $265.0 million for midstream infrastructure development. Our capital budget excludes acquisitions, other than leasehold acquisitions. We expect to fund our 2014 capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and a portion of the net proceeds of our IPO. Our 2014 capital expenditure budget also assumes that the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is increased during 2014. If our lenders do not increase our borrowing base, we may seek alternate debt financing or reduce our capital expenditures. In addition, a portion of our 2014 capital budget is projected to be financed with cash flows from operations derived from wells drilled on drilling locations not associated with proved reserves in our reserve reports. The failure to achieve projected production and cash flows from operations from such wells could result in a reduction to our 2014 capital budget. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, natural gas prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in natural gas prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under our revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions.Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:•our proved reserves;•the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;•our access to, and the cost of accessing end markets for our production; •the prices at which our production is sold;•our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;•the levels of our operating expenses; and•our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.29Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling, including or as a result of the application of these techniques, include, but are not limited to, the following:•effectively controlling the level of pressure flowing from particular wells; •landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;•staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;•running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and•being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.Risks that we face while completing our wells, including or as a result of the application of these techniques, include, but are not limited to, the following:•the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;•the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and•the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could result in a total loss of investment or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable natural gas production or that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells or that various characteristics of the well will cause us to plug or abandon the well prior to producing in commercially viable quantities. Our decisions to purchase, explore or develop prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “—Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:•delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, discharge of greenhouse gases, and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;•pressure or irregularities in geological formations;•shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;•equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;•lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;•lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;•adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms;•issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;30•declines in natural gas prices;•limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;•title problems; and•limitations in the market for natural gas.Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and other regulatory penalties.We have incurred losses from operations for various periods since our inception and may do so in the future.We incurred a net loss of $35.8 million and $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of prospects has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this “Risk Factors” section may impede our ability to economically find, develop and acquire natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our $1.5 billion first lien secured revolving credit facility (as amended from $500.0 million, effective January 29, 2014) and our $300.0 million second lien secured term loan, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.As of March 20, 2014, the borrowing base under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility was $350.0 million (as amended from $500.0 million and $200.0 million, respectively, effective January 29, 2014). Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur in April 2014. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender’s portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.Our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Marcellus Shale and Upper Devonian Shale formations in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by 31governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs and changes in regional and local political regimes and regulations. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of areas within the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale have historically been subject to mining operations. For example, third parties may engage in subsurface mining operations near or under our properties, which could cause subsidence or other damage to our properties, adversely impact our drilling or adversely impact our midstream activities or those on which we rely. In such event, our operations may be impaired or interrupted, and we may not be able to recover the costs incurred as a result of temporary shut-ins, the plugging and abandonment of any of our wells or the repair of our midstream facilities. Furthermore, the existence of mining operations near our properties could require coordination to avoid adverse impacts as a result of drilling and mining in close proximity. In connection with entering into the Marcellus JV Buy-In, we agreed to continue to acknowledge the dominance of mining by Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. within the area of mutual interest of our Marcellus joint venture. As such, in addition to coordinating with Alpha Holdings on, and in certain circumstances obtaining the prior approval of Alpha Holdings for, future drilling operations, we may also be required to take steps to assure the dominance of the mining operations of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., including the plugging and abandonment of wells at the direction of Alpha Holdings upon two years notice. These restrictions on our operations, and any similar restrictions, can cause delays or interruptions or can prevent us from executing our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of natural gas properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties.We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.We completed our first horizontal well in the Marcellus Shale in October 2010 and began to delineate our Utica Shale leasehold position in October 2013. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history and since we have no experience drilling in these plays (including the Utica Shale), we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. Additionally, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments. For example, as a result of unexpected levels of pressure, in December 2013 we plugged and abandoned the first well we spud in the Utica Shale. We have since spud our second well in the Utica Shale and expect to obtain an initial production test from this well in the second quarter of 2014. We cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. During the term of the Utica Development Agreements, we will rely on Gulfport for the success of our project in the Southern Contract Area in Belmont County, Ohio, and we may not be able to maximize the value of our properties in the Southern Contract Area as we deem best because we are not in full control of this project.During the term of the Utica Development Agreements, the success of our operation in the Southern Contract Area in Belmont County, Ohio, will depend in part on the ability of Gulfport to effectively exploit the acreage it operates under the Development Agreement. Please read “Item 1. Business—Our Properties—Utica Shale—Development Agreement and Area of Mutual Interest Agreement.” Pursuant to the Development Agreement, we have designated Gulfport as the operator of our existing and future acreage in the Southern Contract Area. A failure or inability of Gulfport to adequately exploit the acreage it operates would have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, other than limitations set forth in the terms of the Development Agreement, we do not control the amount of capital that Gulfport may require for development of properties in the Southern Contract Area. Accordingly, we may be required to allocate capital to development of the Southern Contract Area at times when we otherwise would allocate capital to the Northern Contract Area, our Marcellus Shale acreage or elsewhere or otherwise be forced to terminate the Utica Development Agreements. Under any of these circumstances, our prospects for realization of the potential value of the oil, natural gas and NGL reserves associated with the Southern Contract Area could be adversely affected. Our lack of control may limit our ability to develop our properties in the manner we believe to be in our best interest.32Insufficient takeaway capacity in the Appalachian Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized natural gas prices.The Appalachian Basin natural gas business environment has historically been characterized by periods in which production has surpassed local takeaway capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received by producers such as us. Although additional Appalachian Basin takeaway capacity was added in 2013 and 2012, we do not believe the existing and expected capacity will be sufficient to keep pace with the increased production caused by accelerated drilling in the area. We expect that a significant portion of our production from the Utica Shale will be transported on pipelines that experience a differential to NYMEX Henry Hub prices. If we are unable to complete the Momentum Acquisition or unable to secure additional gathering and compression capacity and long-term firm takeaway capacity on major pipelines that are in existence or under construction in our core operating area to accommodate our growing production and to manage basis differentials, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are required to pay fees to our service providers based on minimum volumes regardless of actual volume throughput.We have various gas transportation service agreements in place, each with minimum volume delivery commitments. As of March 1, 2014, our average annual contractual firm transportation and firm sales obligations for 2014, 2015 and 2016 were approximately 330,000 MMBtu/d, 654,000 MMBtu/d, and 761,000 MMBtu/d, respectively, which are in excess of our pro forma average daily gross operated production of approximately 231,000 MMBtu/d for December 2013. While we believe that our future natural gas volumes will be sufficient to satisfy the minimum requirements under our gas transportation services agreements based on our current production and our exploration and development plan, we can provide no such assurances that such volumes will be sufficient. We are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to our service providers regardless of actual volume throughput, which could be significant. If these fees on minimum volumes are substantial, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to cover these obligations, which may require us to reduce or delay our planned investments and capital expenditures or seek alternative means of financing.Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.Our revolving credit facility and second lien term loan each contain a number of significant covenants (in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness), including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:•sell assets;•make loans to others;•make investments;•enter into mergers;•make certain payments;•hedge future production or interest rates;•incur liens;•engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders; and•pay dividends.In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. On certain occasions in the past we have not met these financial covenants. Our convertible debentures also require us to maintain certain financial ratios that could limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our credit facilities and our convertible debentures impose on us.33Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine on a semi-annual basis based upon projected revenues from the natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the requisite number of lenders do not agree to an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base acceptable to such lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid, or we must pledge other natural gas properties as additional collateral after applicable grace periods. As of December 31, 2013, we did not have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. As of March 20, 2014, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility was $350.0 million (as amended from $200.0 million, effective January 29, 2014). Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur in April 2014.A breach of any covenant in either our revolving credit facility or our second lien term loan facility would result in a default under the applicable agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under the relevant facility and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.In certain circumstances we may have to purchase commodities on the open market or make cash payments under our hedging arrangements and these payments could be significant.If our production is less than the volume commitments under our hedging arrangements, or if natural gas or oil prices exceed the price at which we have hedged our commodities, we may be obligated to make cash payments to our hedge counterparties or purchase the volume difference at market prices, which could, in certain circumstances, be significant. As of December 31, 2013, we had entered into hedging contracts through December 31, 2017 covering a total of approximately 186 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $4.09 per MMBtu. For the period from January 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014, we have hedged approximately 62.9 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $4.05 per MMBtu. If we have to purchase additional commodities on the open market or post cash collateral to meet our obligations under such arrangements, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced.Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.The process of estimating natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.Actual future production, natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. As a substantial portion of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, any significant variance from the above assumption could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate.Reserve estimates for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. Less production history may contribute to less accurate estimates of reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Most of our producing wells have been operational for less than one year and estimated reserves vary substantially from well to well and are not directly correlated to perforated lateral length or completion 34technique. Furthermore, the lack of operational history for horizontal wells in the Utica Shale may also contribute to the inaccuracy of future estimates of reserves and could result in our failing to achieve expected results in the play. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates or, in the case of the Utica Shale, management expectations, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our gross identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill our identified drilling locations.Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other identified drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Further, certain of the horizontal wells we intend to drill in the future may require unitization with adjacent leaseholds controlled by third parties. If these third parties are unwilling to unitize such leaseholds with ours, this may limit the total locations we can drill. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.As of December 31, 2013, we had 1,313 gross (752 net) pro forma identified drilling locations. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of our identified drilling locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. For more information on our identified drilling locations, see “Item 1. Business—Our Operations—Reserve Data—Determination of Identified Drilling Locations.”Our acreage must be drilled before lease expiration, generally within three to five years, in order to hold the acreage by production. In a highly competitive market for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage may result in a substantial lease renewal cost, or if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.Leases on our oil and natural gas properties typically have a term of three to five years, after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres. As of December 31, 2013, on a pro forma basis, we had leases representing 1,054 undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2014, 2,365 undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2015, 4,132 undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2016, 35,639 undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2017 and 28,161 undeveloped acres scheduled to expire in 2018 and thereafter. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, many of our leases require lessor consent to unitize, which may make it more difficult to hold our leases by production. Any reduction in our current drilling program, either through a reduction in capital expenditures or the unavailability of drilling rigs, could result in the loss of acreage through lease expirations. In addition, in order to hold our current leases scheduled to expire in 2014 and 2015, we will need to operate at least a one-rig program. We cannot assure you that we will have the liquidity to deploy rigs when needed, or that commodity prices will warrant operating such a drilling program. Our reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage and the loss of any leases could materially and adversely affect our ability to so develop such acreage.The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements in effect at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas average prices without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:•actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;35•actual cost of development and production expenditures;•the amount and timing of actual production; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. As a limited liability company, our predecessor was not subject to federal taxation. Accordingly, our standardized measure does not provide for federal corporate income taxes because taxable income was passed through to its members. As a corporation, we are treated as a taxable entity for federal income tax purposes and our future income taxes will be dependent on our future taxable income. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report which could have a material effect on the value of our reserves.We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.Leases in the Appalachian Basin are particularly vulnerable to title deficiencies due to the long history of land ownership in the area, resulting in extensive and complex chains of title. In the course of acquiring the rights to develop oil and natural gas, it is standard procedure for us and the lessor to execute a lease agreement with payment subject to title verification. In most cases, we incur the expense of retaining lawyers to verify the rightful owners of the oil and gas interests prior to payment of such lease bonus to the lessor. There is no certainty, however, that a lessor has valid title to its lease’s oil and gas interests. In those cases, such leases are generally voided and payment is not remitted to the lessor. As such, title failures may result in fewer net acres to us. Prior to the drilling of an oil or natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. Accordingly, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.As of December 31, 2013, on a pro forma basis, approximately 58% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Our approximately 352 Bcf of pro forma estimated proved undeveloped reserves will require an estimated $313 million of development capital over the next five years. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A writedown constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing development and exploration activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on 36our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, we enter into derivative instrument contracts for a significant portion of our natural gas production, including fixed-price swaps. As of December 31, 2013, we had entered into hedging contracts through December 31, 2017 covering a total of approximately 186 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $4.09 per MMBtu. For the period from January 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014, we have hedged approximately 62.9 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $4.05 per MMBtu. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:•production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;•the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;•there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or•there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates.Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty’s liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract. As of December 31, 2013, the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative contracts was approximately $4.0 million. Any default by the counterparties to these derivative contracts, Wells Fargo Bank N.A. and Bank of Montreal, when they become due would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the counterparties above at December 31, 2013, subsequent to December 31, 2013, we also executed hedging transactions with Barclays Bank PLC. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for natural gas, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition.The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.In addition to credit risk related to receivables from commodity derivative contracts, our principal exposures to credit risk are through joint interest receivables ($6.4 million at December 31, 2013) and the sale of our natural gas production ($16.5 million in receivables as of December 31, 2013), which we market to two natural gas marketing companies. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leased properties on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our natural gas receivables with two natural gas marketing companies. The largest purchaser of our natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2013 purchased approximately 94% of our operated production. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.37Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities that could exceed current expectations.Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues could arise from environmental laws and regulations inherent in drilling and well completion, gathering, transportation, and storage, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the performance of these types of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws include:•Clean Air Act (“CAA”) and analogous state law, which impose obligations related to air emissions;•Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and analogous state law, which regulate discharge of wastewaters and storm water from some of our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands;•Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and analogous state law, which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal;•Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and analogous state law, which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of any solid and hazardous waste from our facilities;•National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), which requires federal agencies to study likely environmental impacts of a proposed federal action before it is approved, such as drilling on federal lands;•Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”), and analogous state law, which restrict the disposal, treatment or release of water produced or used during oil and gas development;•Endangered Species Act (“ESA”), and analogous state law, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species; and•Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”) of 1990, which requires oil storage facilities and vessels to submit to the federal government plans detailing how they will respond to large discharges, requires updates to technology and equipment, regulates above ground storage tanks and sets forth liability for spills by responsible parties.Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and analogous state agencies and tribal governments, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate may be located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us.In March 2010, the EPA announced its National Enforcement Initiatives for 2014 to 2016, which includes “Assuring Energy Extraction Activities Comply with Environmental Laws.” According to the EPA’s website, “some techniques for natural gas extraction pose a significant risk to public health and the environment.” To address these concerns, the EPA’s goal is to “address incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities that may cause or contribute to significant harm to public health and/or the environment.” This initiative could involve a large scale investigation of our facilities and processes, and could lead to potential enforcement actions, penalties or injunctive relief against us.38Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control equipment requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs.We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change, and any new capital costs may be incurred to comply with such changes. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including drilling, processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. For instance, federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Further, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our customers, which in turn could affect our profitability.Changes in laws or government regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our costs of doing business, limit the areas in which we can operate and reduce our oil and natural gas production, which could adversely impact our business.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, and proposals have been made to enact separate federal, state and local legislation that would increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing. The SDWA regulates the underground injection of substances through the Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) program and exempts hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection”. Congress has in recent legislative sessions considered legislation to amend the SDWA, including legislation that would repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. The U.S. Congress may consider similar SDWA legislation in the future. A final rule is expected some time in 2014. In addition, EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published final permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels in those states where EPA is the permitting authority. Also, in November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently plans to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. To date, the EPA has not issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking; therefore, it is unclear how any federal disclosure requirements that add to any applicable state disclosure requirements already in effect may affect our operations. Further, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose federal Clean Water Act regulations by 2014 governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. In addition, the U.S. Department of the Interior published a revised proposed rule on May 16, 2013, that would update existing regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including requirements for chemical disclosure, well bore integrity and handling of flowback water. The revised proposed rule was subject to an extended 90-day public comment period, which ended on August 23, 2013.Presently, hydraulic fracturing is regulated primarily at the state level, typically by state oil and natural gas commissions and similar agencies. Along with several other states, Pennsylvania (where we conduct operations) has adopted laws and proposed regulations that require oil and natural gas operators to disclose chemical ingredients and water volumes used to hydraulically fracture wells, in addition to more stringent well construction and monitoring requirements. The chemical ingredient information is generally available to the public via online databases, and this may bring more public scrutiny to hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, local governments may also adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. Although the Pennsylvania legislature passed legislation to make regulation of drilling uniform through the state, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in Robinson Township v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 39struck down portions of that legislation. Following this decision, local governments in Pennsylvania may increasingly adopt ordinances relating to drilling and hydraulic fracturing activities, especially within residential areas. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.The EPA is conducting a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water. The EPA issued a Progress Report in December 2012 and a draft final report is anticipated by 2014 for peer review and public comment. As part of this study, the EPA requested that certain companies provide them with information concerning the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. This study or other studies may be undertaken by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and depending on their results, could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities and make it more difficult or costly for our customers to perform fracturing. Any such regulations limiting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing could reduce oil and natural gas exploration and production activities by our customers and, therefore, adversely affect our business. Such laws or regulations could also materially increase our costs of compliance and doing business by more strictly regulating how hydraulic fracturing wastes are handled or disposed.Oil and natural gas producers’ operations, especially those using hydraulic fracturing, are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water may impact our operations.Water is an essential component of oil and natural gas production during the drilling, and in particular, hydraulic fracturing, process. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations.Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. The CWA imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. State and federal discharge regulations prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. Specific to Pennsylvania, sending wastewater to POTWs requires certain levels of pretreatment that may effectively prohibit such disposal as a disposal option and our continued ability to use injection wells as a disposal option not only will depend on federal or state regulations but also on whether available injection wells have sufficient storage capacities. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted.We are subject to risks associated with climate change.There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services, the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks. In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate change creates the potential for financial risk. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation related to GHG emissions. There have also been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions. For example, the Obama administration recently announced its Climate Action Plan, which, among other things, directs federal agencies to develop a strategy for the reduction of methane emissions, including emissions from the oil and gas sector.On September 22, 2009, the EPA finalized a GHG reporting rule that requires large sources of GHG emissions to monitor, maintain records on, and annually report their GHG emissions beginning January 1, 2010. The rule applies primarily to large facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2e) emissions per year and to most upstream suppliers of fossil fuels, as well as manufacturers of vehicles and engines. Subsequently, on November 8, 2010, the EPA issued GHG monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect on December 30, 2010, specifically for oil and natural gas 40facilities, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2e per year. The rule requires reporting of GHG emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA by March 2012 for emissions during 2011 and annually thereafter. We are required to report our GHG emissions to the EPA each year in March under this rule. The EPA also issued a final rule that makes certain stationary sources and newer modification projects subject to permitting requirements for GHG emissions, beginning in 2011, under the CAA. Under a phased-in approach, for most purposes, new permitting provisions are required for new facilities that emit 100,000 tons per year or more of CO2e and existing facilities that make changes increasing emissions of CO2e by 75,000 metric tons. The EPA has indicated in rulemakings that it may further reduce these regulatory thresholds in the future, making additional sources subject to permitting.The recent actions of the EPA and the passage of any federal or state climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy.We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.Our natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing natural gas, including the possibility of:•environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;•abnormally pressured formations;•mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;•fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;•personal injuries and death;•natural disasters; and•terrorist attacks targeting natural gas and oil related facilities and infrastructure.Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:•injury or loss of life;•damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•pollution and other environmental damage;•regulatory investigations and penalties;•suspension of our operations; and•repair and remediation costs.In accordance with what we believe to be customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of our business risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities we may suffer. Also, insurance may no longer be available to us or, if it is, its availability may be at premium levels that do not justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial condition. We may also be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities may not be covered by insurance.41Since hydraulic fracturing activities are a large part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean-up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. However, we may not have coverage if we are unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the “occurrence” to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy. We have no coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Properties that we decide to drill may not yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in commercially viable quantities.Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our project areas are in various stages of development, ranging from project areas with current drilling or production activity to project areas that consist of recently acquired leasehold acreage or that have limited drilling or production history. If the wells in the process of being completed do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit or if we drill dry holes in the future, our business may be materially affected. In addition, there is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether natural gas, NGLs or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas, NGLs or oil will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:•unexpected drilling conditions;•title problems;•pressure or lost circulation in formations;•equipment failure or accidents;•adverse weather conditions;•compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and•increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.In the future we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business, such as the Momentum Acquisition. However, we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.42In addition, our credit facilities impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our credit facilities and our convertible debentures also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to natural gas, NGL or oil markets or delay our production.Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory natural gas, NGL or oil transportation arrangements may hinder our access to markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas, NGLs or oil and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas, NGL or oil pipeline or gathering system capacity. In addition, if quality specifications for the third-party pipelines with which we connect change so as to restrict our ability to transport product, our access to markets could be impeded. If our production becomes shut in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities.Our natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes to existing or new regulations may unfavorably impact us, could result in increased operating costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such potential regulations could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay or halt our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the discharges of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters” for a further description of laws and regulations that affect us.The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. We intend to continue our four-rig drilling program in the Marcellus Shale and two-rig drilling program in the Utica Shale; however, certain of the rigs performing work for us do so on a well-by-well basis and can refuse to provide such services at the conclusion of drilling on the current well. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.43A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, (“NGA”), exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation, the rates for, and terms and conditions of services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC. Such regulation could decrease revenues, increase operating costs, and depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the cost-based rate established by the FERC.State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. We cannot predict what new or different regulations federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulation may have on our activities. Such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows.Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPAct 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, we are required to report aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. In addition, Congress may enact legislation or FERC may adopt regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to further regulation. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability.Competition in the natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past three years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion and have a limited operating history.We have grown rapidly over the last several years and more than doubled our employee workforce during 2013. Our management believes that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:44•increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;•increased administrative burden;•increased capital requirements; and•increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations. We began development of our properties in 2010 with a two-rig drilling program. Recently, we expanded our development operations and are currently managing a six-rig drilling program. As a result, there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base your evaluation of our performance.Seasonal weather conditions and regulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and regulations designed to protect various wildlife. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:•recoverable reserves;•future natural gas, NGL or oil prices and their applicable differentials;•operating costs; and•potential environmental and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis.The enactment of derivatives legislation, and the promulgation of regulations pursuant thereto, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. Although the CFTC has finalized some regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “swap dealer,” and “major swap participant”, others remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.45The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the CFTC to establish rules and regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The CFTC’s initial position limits rules were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, on November 5, 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for swaps entered to hedge its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, for uncleared swaps, the CFTC or federal banking regulators may require end-users to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation margin. Posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time.The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is lower commodity prices.Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us, our financial condition or our results of operations.Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation.The Fiscal Year 2014 Budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in Congress that would implement many of these proposals. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities for oil and gas production; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective.The passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.In February 2012, the state legislature of Pennsylvania passed a new natural gas impact fee in Pennsylvania. The legislation imposes an annual fee on natural gas and oil operators for each well drilled for a period of fifteen years. The fee is on a sliding scale set by the Public Utility Commission and is based on two factors: changes in the Consumer Price Index and the average NYMEX natural gas prices from the last day of each month. There can be no assurance that the impact fee will remain as currently structured or that new or additional taxes will not be imposed.In February 2013, the governor of the state of Ohio proposed a plan to enact new severance taxes in fiscal 2014 and 2015. However, the Ohio State Senate did not include a severance tax increase in the version of the budget bill that it passed on June 7, 2013. The possibility remains that the severance tax increase on horizontal wells will resurface during compromise talks on the budget.46Risks Related to Our Common StockThe requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.As a public company, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We are required to:•institute a more comprehensive compliance function;•comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE;•continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;•establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and•involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities.Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, while we anticipate that we will cease to be an “emerging growth company” at the end of 2014, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management; and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.In addition, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.In connection with past audits and reviews of our financial statements and those of our Marcellus joint venture, our independent registered public accounting firms identified and reported adjustments to management. Certain of such adjustments were deemed to be the result of internal control deficiencies that constituted a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.Prior to the completion of our IPO, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel to adequately execute our accounting processes and other supervisory resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our Marcellus joint venture previously relied on our accounting personnel for its accounting processes. Historically, we and our Marcellus joint venture had not maintained effective internal control environments in that the design and execution of such controls had not consistently resulted in effective review and supervision by individuals with financial reporting oversight roles. The lack of adequate staffing levels resulted in insufficient time spent on review and approval of certain information used to prepare the financial statements of us and our Marcellus joint venture. We concluded that these control deficiencies constituted material weaknesses in our control environment for the year ended December 31, 2012. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The control deficiencies described above, at varying degrees of severity, contributed to the material weaknesses in the control environment as further described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures—Material Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.”47To address these control deficiencies, we have hired additional accounting and financial reporting staff, implemented additional analysis and reconciliation procedures and increased the levels of review and approval. Additionally, we have begun taking steps to comprehensively document and analyze our system of internal control over financial reporting in preparation for our first management report on internal control over financial reporting in connection with our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2014. Due to the recent implementation of these changes to our control environment, management continues to evaluate the design and effectiveness of these control changes in connection with its ongoing evaluation, review, formalization and testing of our internal control environment over the remainder of 2014. We will not complete our review until the second half of 2014 and we cannot predict the outcome of our review at this time. Based upon the status of our review, we and our independent auditors have concluded that the material weakness previously identified had not been remediated as of December 31, 2013. During the course of the review, we may identify additional control deficiencies, which could give rise to significant deficiencies and other material weaknesses in addition to the material weakness previously identified. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to remedy or avoid material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we were not required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, which require a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, which require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose material changes made to our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC. To comply with the requirements of being a publicly traded company, we have upgraded our systems, including information technology, implemented additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hired additional accounting and finance staff. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an “emerging growth company” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, while we anticipate that we will cease to be an “emerging growth company” at the end of 2014, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. We can provide no assurance that our independent registered public accounting firm will be satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating at the time it issues its report. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares of common stock.Rice Holdings, Rice Partners and NGP Holdings collectively hold a substantial majority of our common stock.Upon the completion of our IPO, Rice Holdings, Rice Partners and NGP Holdings held approximately 15.9%, 15.6% and 18.3% of our common stock, respectively. As such, Rice Holdings, Rice Partners and NGP Holdings have the collective voting power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (subject to the right of Alpha Natural Resources Inc. to designate one director) and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and will be able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. The existence of significant stockholders may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company.So long as Rice Holdings, Rice Partners and NGP Holdings continue to control a significant amount of our common stock, each will continue to be able to strongly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that a potential transaction is in their own best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of Rice Holdings, Rice Partners and NGP Holdings may differ or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a controlling stockholder.48The stockholders’ agreement entered into in connection with the completion of our IPO permits our principal stockholders to designate a majority of the members of our board of directors.In connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into a stockholders’ agreement with Rice Holdings, Rice Partners, NGP Holdings and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., pursuant to which Rice Holdings, NGP Holdings and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. have certain rights relative to designated director nominees and agreed to vote their shares of common stock in accordance with the stockholders’ agreement, including as it relates to the election of directors.Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and one or more of our sponsors concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.Our sponsors include other participants in the energy industry, including Natural Gas Partners, affiliates of Daniel J. Rice III (the Lead Portfolio Manager in the energy division at GRT Capital Partners) and Alpha Natural Resources Inc. Certain of our sponsors and/or their affiliates make investments in the U.S. oil and gas industry from time to time. As a result, our sponsors and/or their affiliates may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers. In certain circumstances, they may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Under our certificate of incorporation, certain of our sponsors and/or one or more of their respective affiliates are permitted to engage in business activities or invest in or acquire businesses which may compete with our business or do business with any client of ours. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:•limitations on the removal of directors;•limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;•establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders;•providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establishing advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and our credit facilities place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our credit facilities place certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your common stock at a price greater than you paid for it, for which there is no guarantee.Future sales of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.49We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and avail ourself of exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.Rice Holdings, Rice Partners, NGP Holdings and Alpha Holdings collectively beneficially control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. In connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into a stockholders’ agreement with Rice Holdings, Rice Partners, NGP Holdings and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., pursuant to which Rice Holdings, NGP Holdings and Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. have certain rights relative to designated director nominees and will agree to vote their shares of common stock in accordance with the stockholders’ agreement, including as it relates to the election of directors. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:•a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;•the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities;•the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and•there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance and compensation committees.These requirements do not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. We have elected to utilize some of these exemptions. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the JOBS Act. We are classified as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (4) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.0 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. We anticipate that we will cease to be an “emerging growth company” at the end of 2014. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 50Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.