Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the information in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” and the following risks before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessNatural gas, NGL and oil prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.The prices we receive for our natural gas, NGL and oil production heavily influence our revenue, operating results profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Natural gas, NGLs and oil are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities market has been volatile. For example, the Henry Hub spot market price had declined from a high of $7.94 per MMBtu on March 5, 2014 to a low of $2.75 per MMBtu on December 25, 2014. Natural gas prices have remained depressed thus far in 2015, and the commodities market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:•worldwide and regional economic conditions affecting the global supply of and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil;•the price and quantity of imports of foreign natural gas, including liquefied natural gas;17•political conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;•the level of global exploration and production;•the level of global inventories;•prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate and expectations about future commodity prices;•the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities, and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices;•localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;•the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries;•weather conditions and natural disasters;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;•speculative trading in natural gas and crude oil derivative contracts;•risks associated with operating drilling rigs;•increased end-user conservation or conversion of alternative fuels;•the price and availability of competitors’ supplies of natural gas and oil and alternative fuels; and•domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.Furthermore, the worldwide financial and credit crisis in recent years reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide, resulting in a slowdown in economic activity and recession in parts of the world. This economic environment reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower natural gas, NGL and oil prices.In addition, substantially all of our natural gas production is sold to purchasers under contracts with market-based prices. The actual prices realized from the sale of natural gas differ from the quoted NYMEX Henry Hub price as a result of location differentials. Location differentials to NYMEX Henry Hub prices, also known as basis differentials, result from variances in regional natural gas prices compared to NYMEX Henry Hub prices as a result of regional supply and demand factors. Historically, we have entered into long-term firm transportation arrangements pursuant to which our production is shipped to markets that we expect to be less impacted by basis differentials. In recent years, the cost of new firm transportation projects has risen significantly. There can be no assurance that the net impact of entering into such arrangements, after giving effect to their costs, will result in more favorable sales prices for our production in the future than local pricing. As such, our net sales prices may be materially less than NYMEX Henry Hub prices as a result of basis differentials and/or firm transportation costs.Lower commodity prices and negative increases in our differentials will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves as existing reserves are depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can produce economically.If commodity prices further decrease or our negative differentials further increase, a significant portion of our development and exploration projects could become uneconomic. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices or an increase in our negative differentials may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.Our development and exploration projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our natural gas reserves.The natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the development and acquisition of natural gas reserves. In 2015, we plan to invest $1,070.0 million in our operations, 18including $340.0 million for drilling and completion in the Marcellus Shale, $220.0 million for drilling and completion in the Utica Shale, $120.0 million for leasehold acquisitions and $390.0 million for midstream infrastructure development, including $180.0 million expected to be invested by RMP. Our capital budget excludes acquisitions, other than leasehold acquisitions. We expect to fund our 2015 capital expenditures with existing cash, cash generated by operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. If we do not have sufficient borrowing availability under our revolving credit facilities, including our $550.0 million Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility (“Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility”) due to the current commodity price environment or otherwise, we may seek alternate debt financing or reduce our capital expenditures. In addition, a portion of our 2015 capital budget is projected to be financed with cash flows from operations derived from wells drilled on drilling locations not associated with proved reserves in our reserve report. The failure to achieve projected production and cash flows from operations from such wells could result in a reduction to our 2015 capital budget. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, natural gas prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in natural gas prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under our revolving credit facilities; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions.Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:•our proved reserves;•the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;•our access to, and the cost of accessing, end markets for our production; •the prices at which our production is sold;•our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;•the levels of our operating expenses; and•our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facilities.If our revenues or the borrowing base under our $550.0 million Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our planned capital budget or our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could result in a total loss of investment or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable natural gas production or that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells or that various characteristics of the well will cause us to plug or abandon the well prior to producing in commercially viable quantities. Our decisions to purchase, explore or develop prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “—Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:19•delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, discharge of greenhouse gases, and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;•pressure or irregularities in geological formations;•shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;•equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;•lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;•lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;•adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards and ice storms;•issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;•declines in natural gas prices;•limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;•title problems; and•limitations in the market for natural gas.Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and other regulatory penalties.Our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, with a particular concentration in Washington and Greene Counties, Pennsylvania and Belmont County, Ohio. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in these areas. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other weather related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs and changes in regional and local political regimes and regulations. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of areas within the Appalachian Basin have historically been subject to mining operations. For example, third parties may engage in subsurface mining operations near or under our properties, which could cause subsidence or other damage to our properties, adversely impact our drilling or adversely impact our midstream activities or those on which we rely. In such event, our operations may be impaired or interrupted, and we may not be able to recover the costs incurred as a result of temporary shut-ins, the plugging and abandonment of any of our wells or the repair of our midstream facilities. Furthermore, the existence of mining operations near our properties could require coordination to avoid adverse impacts as a result of drilling and mining in close proximity. In connection with our aquisition of Alpha Holdings’ 50% interest in our Marcellus joint venture on January 29, 2014, we agreed to continue to acknowledge the dominance of mining by Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. (“Alpha”) within the area of mutual interest of our Marcellus joint venture. As such, in addition to coordinating with Alpha on, and in certain circumstances obtaining the prior approval of Alpha for, future drilling operations, we may also be required to take steps to assure the dominance of the mining operations of Alpha, including the plugging and abandonment of wells at the direction of Alpha upon two years notice. These restrictions on our operations, and any similar restrictions, can cause delays or interruptions or can prevent us from executing our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of natural gas properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties.We have been an early entrant into new or emerging plays. As a result, our initial drilling results in these areas may be less certain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.We completed our first horizontal well in the Marcellus Shale in October 2010 and in the Utica Shale in June 2014. While our costs to acquire undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays have generally been less than those of later entrants into a developing play, our drilling results in these areas are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Since new or emerging plays have limited or no production history we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. Additionally, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments. We cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. During the term of the Utica Development Agreements, we will rely on Gulfport for the success of our project in the Southern Contract Area in Belmont County, Ohio, and we may not be able to maximize the value of our properties in the Southern Contract Area as we deem best because we are not in full control of this project.During the term of the Utica Development Agreements, the success of our operation in the Southern Contract Area in Belmont County, Ohio, will depend in part on the ability of Gulfport to effectively exploit the acreage it operates under the Development Agreement. Please read “Item 1. Business—Exploration and Production Business Segment—Development Agreement and Area of Mutual Interest Agreement.” Pursuant to the Development Agreement, we have designated Gulfport as the operator of our existing and future acreage in the Southern Contract Area. A failure or inability of Gulfport to adequately exploit the acreage it operates would have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, other than limitations set forth in the terms of the Development Agreement, we do not control the amount of capital that Gulfport may require for development of properties in the Southern Contract Area. Accordingly, we may be required to allocate capital to development of the Southern Contract Area at times when we otherwise would allocate capital to the Northern Contract Area, our Marcellus Shale acreage or elsewhere or otherwise be forced to terminate the Utica Development Agreements. Under any of these circumstances, our prospects for realization of the potential value of the oil, natural gas and NGL reserves associated with the Southern Contract Area could be adversely affected. Our lack of control may limit our ability to develop our properties in the manner we believe to be in our best interest.Insufficient takeaway capacity in the Appalachian Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized natural gas prices.The Appalachian Basin natural gas business environment has recently experienced periods in which production has surpassed local takeaway capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received by producers such as us. Although additional Appalachian Basin takeaway capacity has been added in recent years, the existing and expected capacity may not be sufficient to keep pace with the increased production caused by accelerated drilling in the area in the short term. Furthermore, the costs associated with securing long-term firm transportation capacity has risen significantly on newer projects. There can be no assurance that the net impact of entering into such arrangements, after giving effect to their costs, will result in more favorable sales prices for our production in the future than local pricing. If we are unable to secure additional gathering and compression capacity and long-term firm takeaway capacity on major pipelines that are in existence or under construction in our core operating area to accommodate our growing production and to manage basis differentials, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are required to pay fees to our service providers based on minimum volumes regardless of actual volume throughput.We have various gas transportation service agreements in place, each with minimum volume delivery commitments. As of March 1, 2015, our average annual contractual firm transportation and firm sales obligations for 2015, 2016 and 2017 were approximately 813,000 MMBtu/d, 918,000 MMBtu/d and 1,011,000 MMBtu/d, respectively. While we believe that our future natural gas volumes will be sufficient to satisfy the minimum requirements under our gas transportation services agreements based on our current production and our exploration and development plan, we can provide no such assurances that such volumes will be sufficient. We are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to our service providers regardless of actual volume throughput, which could be significant. If these fees on minimum volumes are substantial, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to cover these obligations, which may require us to reduce or delay our planned investments and capital expenditures or seek alternative means of financing.21Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.Our revolving credit facility and the indenture (the “Indenture”) governing the $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2022 (the “Senior Notes”) we issued in a private placement on April 25, 2014 (the “Senior Notes Offering”) contain a number of significant covenants (in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness), including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:•sell assets;•make loans to others;•make investments;•enter into mergers;•make certain payments;•hedge future production or interest rates;•incur liens;•engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders; and•pay dividends.In addition, our revolving credit facility and the Indenture require us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. On certain occasions in the past we have not met these financial covenants. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and under the Indenture impose on us.Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.Our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine on a semi-annual basis based upon projected revenues from the natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the requisite number of lenders do not agree to an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base acceptable to such lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid, or we must pledge other natural gas properties as additional collateral after applicable grace periods. As of December 31, 2014, we did not have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. As of October 2014, the borrowing base under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility was $550.0 million. The commodity prices used by our lenders in our most recent borrowing base determination were not reflective of the substantially lower commodity prices realized in December 2014 and January 2015. Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur in April 2015.A breach of any covenant in our revolving credit facility would result in a default under the facility after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under the relevant facility and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements that include cross default provisions. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.In certain circumstances we may have to purchase commodities on the open market or make cash payments under our hedging arrangements and these payments could be significant.If our production is less than the volume commitments under our hedging arrangements, or if natural gas or oil prices exceed the price at which we have hedged our commodities, we may be obligated to make cash payments to our hedge counterparties or purchase the volume difference at market prices, which could, in certain circumstances, be significant. As of December 31, 2014, we had entered into NYMEX hedging contracts through December 31, 2017 covering a total of approximately 202 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $4.09 per MMBtu. We have also 22entered into Appalachian hedging contracts through December 31, 2016 covering a total of approximately 45 Bcf of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average price of $2.72 per MMBtu. If we have to purchase additional commodities on the open market or post cash collateral to meet our obligations under such arrangements, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced.Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.The process of estimating natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.Actual future production, natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. As a substantial portion of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, any significant variance from the above assumption could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. Please see “—The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.” Reserve estimates for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. Less production history may contribute to less accurate estimates of reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. A substantial number of our producing wells have been operational for less than two years and estimated reserves vary substantially from well to well. Furthermore, the lack of operational history for horizontal wells in the Utica Shale may also contribute to the inaccuracy of future estimates of reserves and could result in our failing to achieve expected results in the play. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill our drilling locations.Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, gathering system and pipeline transportation costs, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Further, certain of the horizontal wells we intend to drill in the future may require unitization with adjacent leaseholds controlled by third parties. If these third parties are unwilling to unitize such leaseholds with ours, this may limit the total locations we can drill. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.As of December 31, 2014, we had 1,233 net drilling locations. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of these locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful, may not increase our overall 23proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. For more information on our drilling locations, see “