Item 1A. Risk Factors The ownership of our Common Stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights and the rights to our proprietary processes, methods, compounds and other technology. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or in our having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on confidentiality agreements and patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law as well as judicial enforcement of all of the foregoing to protect such technologies and intellectual property rights. In addition, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property and other proprietary information without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property and other proprietary information that is similar to ours, particularly in countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same degree as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property and other proprietary information by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantages we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it becomes necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. Our patents also may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties. Further, our competitors may attempt to design around our patents. Our competitors may also already hold or have applied for patents in the United States or abroad that, if enforced or issued, could prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to manufacture or sell one or more of our products in the United States or abroad. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims. Our failure to secure these patents may limit our ability to protect inventions that these applications were intended to cover. In addition, the expiration of a patent can result in increased competition with consequent erosion of profit margins. Competitors or other parties may, from time to time, assert issued patents or other intellectual property rights against us. If we are legally determined to infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing use, or attempt to obtain a license agreement with the owner of such intellectual property. Further, even if we are successful in defending our rights, such litigation could be burdensome and costly. In some cases, we rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally will enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, our confidentiality agreements could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. In addition, we rely on both registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our name and brands. Failure by us to adequately maintain the quality of our products and services associated with our trademarks or any loss to the distinctiveness of our trademarks may cause us to lose certain trademark protection, which could result in the loss of goodwill and brand recognition in relation to our name and products. In addition, successful third-party challenges to the use of any of our trademarks may require us to rebrand our business or certain products or services associated therewith. The failure of our patents, applicable intellectual property law or our confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information, including our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, trade names and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds, or if we are unsuccessful in our judicial enforcement proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and share price. 10 We may experience claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We seek to improve our business processes and develop new products and applications. Many of our competitors have a substantial amount of intellectual property that we must continually monitor to avoid infringement. We cannot guarantee that we will not experience claims that our processes and products infringe issued patents (whether present or future) or other intellectual property rights belonging to others. For example, we are currently a defendant in a patent infringement claim, which has been vigorously opposed by us, relating to technology that is important to us, although we do not expect this claim to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or reputation. From time to time, we oppose patent applications that we consider overbroad or otherwise invalid in order to maintain the ability to operate freely in our various business lines without the risk of being sued for patent infringement. If, however, patents are subsequently issued on any such applications by other parties, or if patents belonging to others already exist that cover our products, processes or technologies, we could experience claims for infringement or have to take other remedial or curative actions to continue our manufacturing and sales activities with respect to one or more products. Such actions could include payment of damages, stopping the use, obtaining licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineering our products or processes in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Further, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. Our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, and certain of our key employees could leave, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Our business involves complex operations and therefore demands a management team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable and expert in many areas necessary for our operations. As a company focused on manufacturing and highly technical customer service, we rely on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, including our specialized research and development and sales and service personnel, to maintain our efficient production processes, to drive innovation in our product offerings and to maintain our deep customer relationships. As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 2,000 full-time employees, approximately 1,000 of whom were members of our research and development and sales and service teams. The departure of a significant number of our highly skilled employees or of one or more employees who hold key regional management positions could have an adverse impact on our operations, including as a result of customers choosing to follow a regional manager to one of our competitors. In addition, many of our full-time employees are employed outside the United States. In certain jurisdictions where we operate, particularly Brazil, France, Germany, Italy and Japan, labor and employment laws are relatively stringent and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to certain employees, including rights on termination of employment. In addition, in certain countries where we operate, our employees are members of unions or are represented by a works council as required by law. We are often required to consult and seek the consent or advice of these unions and/or works councils. These laws, coupled with the requirement to consult with the relevant unions or works councils, could adversely affect our flexibility in managing costs and responding to market changes and could limit our ability to access the skilled employees on which our business depends. The due diligence undertaken in connection with the MacDermid Acquisition may not have revealed all relevant considerations or liabilities of MacDermid, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the due diligence undertaken by us in connection with the MacDermid Acquisition has revealed all relevant facts that may be necessary to evaluate such acquisition. Furthermore, the information provided during due diligence may have been incomplete, inadequate or inaccurate. As part of the due diligence process, we have also made subjective judgments regarding the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of MacDermid. If the due diligence investigation has failed to correctly identify material issues and liabilities that may be present in MacDermid, or if we consider any identified material risks to be commercially acceptable relative to the opportunity, we may incur substantial impairment charges or other losses following the MacDermid Acquisition. In addition, we may be subject to significant, previously undisclosed liabilities of MacDermid that were not identified during due diligence and which could contribute to poor operational performance and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Conditions in the global economy may directly adversely affect our net sales, gross profit and financial condition and may result in delays or reductions in our spending that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, prospects and share price. Our products are sold in industries that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including the metals and plastics finishings, electronics, oil production and drilling and graphic arts industries. Accordingly, our net sales, gross profit and financial condition depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for our specialty chemical products and services in the markets in which we compete. Delays or reductions in our customers’ chemical products purchasing that result from economic downturns would reduce demand for our products and services and could, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, prospects and share price. Our net sales and gross profit have varied depending on our product, customer and geographic mix for any given period, which makes it difficult to forecast future operating results. Our net sales and gross profit vary among our products and customer groups and markets, and therefore may be different in future periods from historic or current periods. Overall gross profit margins in any given period are dependent in large part on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net sales. Market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory conditions and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on the gross profit margins of certain segments in a given period. Given the nature of our business, the impact of these factors on our business and results of operations will likely vary from period to period and from product to product. For example, a change in market trends that results in a decline in demand for high margin products will have a disproportionately greater adverse effect on our gross profits for that period. The varying nature of our product, customer and geographic mix between periods therefore has materially impacted our net sales and gross profit between periods during certain recessionary times and may lead to difficulties in measuring the potential impact of market, regulatory and other factors on our business. As a result, we may be challenged in our ability to forecast our future operating results. Further, potential future business acquisitions can compound the difficulty in making comparisons between prior, current and future periods because acquisitions and divestitures, which are not ordinary course events, also affect our gross profit margins and our overall operating results. Our business is significantly influenced by trends and characteristics in the specialty chemical industry and the printing industry. We believe that the specialty chemical industry and the printing industry are cyclical and subject to constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles, raw material price fluctuations and changes in product supply and demand. The specialty chemical industry is currently being affected by globalization and a shift in customers' businesses while the printing industry is currently shrinking. The trends and characteristics in these industries may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We face intense competition, and our failure to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive, and most of our product lines compete against product lines from at least two competitors. We encounter competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business; however, our most significant competitors are Atotech Inc. (a division of Total S.A), Enthone Inc. (an Alent plc company) and Rohm and Haas (a division of The Dow Chemical Company) for our Performance Materials segment and Asahi, DuPont and Flint Group for our Graphic Solutions segment. Further, in our Performance Materials segment, our products compete not only with similar products manufactured by our competitors, but also against a variety of chemical and non-chemical alternatives provided by our competitors. Industry consolidation may result in larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, technology, performance, reliability, brand, reputation, range of products, and service and support. We expect our competitors to continue to develop and introduce new products and to enhance their existing products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Our competitors may also improve their manufacturing processes or expand their manufacturing capacity, which could make it more difficult or expensive for us to compete successfully. In addition, our competitors could enter into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers, which could limit our ability, or make it significantly more expensive, to acquire necessary raw materials or to generate sales. 12 Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to promoting and selling certain products. Unlike many of our competitors who specialize in a single or limited number of product lines, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across those businesses. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors invest in competing businesses, and our competitors may therefore have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them with respect to those businesses. Some of our competitors may also incur fewer expenses than we do in creating, marketing and selling certain products and may face fewer risks in introducing new products to the market. This circumstance results from the nature of our business model, which is based on providing innovative and high quality products and therefore may require that we spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our net sales, gross profit and our prospects. Further, because many of our competitors are small divisions of large, international businesses, these competitors may have access to greater resources then we do and may therefore be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully by developing and deploying new cost effective products, processes and technologies on a timely basis and by adapting to changes in our industry and the global economy, our net sales, gross profit and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, tax and economic conditions in other countries that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, we operate, or others operate on our behalf, facilities in 24 countries, in addition to our operations in the United States. We expect sales from international markets to represent an increasing portion of our net sales. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the different legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to our international operations include the following: · agreements and intellectual property rights may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; · foreign customers may have increased credit risk and different financial conditions, which may necessitate longer payment cycles or result in increased bad debt write-offs or additions to reserves related to our foreign receivables; · foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; · foreign exchange controls may delay, restrict or prohibit the repatriation of funds, and any restrictions on the repatriation of funds may result in adverse tax consequences and tax inefficiencies; · U.S. export licenses may be difficult to obtain; · there may be delays and interruptions in transportation of our products; · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. Dollars of products and services provided by us in markets where payment for our products and services is made in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar; · general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates, market demand, labor costs and other factors beyond our control, could have an adverse effect on our net sales in those countries; 13 · our results of operations in a particular country could be affected by political or economic instability on a country-specific or global level from various causes, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions, natural disasters and terrorist activities and the response to such conditions and events; · we may experience difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, including the possibility of labor disputes abroad; · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including environmental, health and safety laws (such as the European Commission’s REACH regulations) and laws and regulations affecting export and import duties and quotas; · compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; · we may be subject to the risks of divergent business expectations resulting from cultural incompatibility; and · overlap of different tax regimes may subject us to additional taxes. Our business in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies which will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, any of the foregoing factors or any combination thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to certain risks. As the regional sales mix in the Performance Materials segment has shifted from more industrialized nations towards emerging markets, we have increased our presence in emerging markets, including greater China, Southeast Asia and South America, by investing significantly in these regions. For example, we have developed state-of-the-art facilities in São Paulo, Brazil and Suzhou, China to better serve our customers and we remain focused on further increasing our presence in these markets. Furthermore, sales into Asia (excluding the non-emerging markets of Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore) and Brazil represented 27% of all net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of risks including economies that may be dependent on only a few products and therefore subject to significant fluctuations, consumers with limited or fluctuating disposable income and discretionary spending on which the end users of our products depend, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization, changes in customs or tax regimes, or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. Accordingly, changes in any of these areas may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our operating results and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. The results of operations and financial condition of each of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. Dollars for inclusion in our audited consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and are likely to continue to do so in the future. For the combined Successor and Predecessor 2013 Periods, an average of approximately 67% of our net sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. These foreign currencies included predominantly the Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Chinese Yuan, Euro, Hong Kong Dollar and Japanese Yen. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. Dollar will decrease the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from operations reported in these foreign currencies and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. From time to time we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot, however, assure you that this arrangement or any other exchange rate hedging arrangements we may enter into from time to time will be effective. If our hedging activities are not effective or if additional hedging transactions are not available, changes in currency exchange rates may have a more significant impact on our results of operations. 14 Because we do not manage our foreign currency exposure in a manner that would eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on our net sales, cash flows and reported amount of assets and liabilities, our financial performance can be positively or negatively impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates in any given reporting period. Besides currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from their functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with the FCPA, and other similar anti-corruption laws, could subject us to penalties and damage our reputation. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain certain policies and procedures. Certain of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business are at a heightened risk for corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives. If we, or our intermediaries, fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA, or similar laws of other countries, governmental authorities in the United States or elsewhere, as applicable, could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our customers’ products and processes can reduce the demand for our specialty chemicals. Our specialty chemicals are used for a broad range of applications by our customers. Changes, including technological changes, in our customers’ products or processes may make our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. We have had, and may continue to have, customers that find alternative materials or processes and therefore no longer require our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term contracts with the customers in our Performance Materials segment. With some exceptions, our relationships with the customers in our Performance Materials segment are based primarily upon individual sales orders. As such, our customers in the Performance Materials segment could cease buying our products from us at any time, for any reason, with little or no recourse. If multiple customers, or a material customer, within this segment elected not to purchase products from us, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of certain customers or independent, third-party distributors in either our Performance Materials or Graphic Solutions segment could adversely affect our overall sales and profitability. In both our Performance Materials and our Graphic Solutions segment, we have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the affected earnings periods. The principal products purchased by such customers are surface finishing chemicals in our Performance Materials segment and solid sheet printing elements in our Graphic Solutions segment. Our net sales, gross profit and financial condition could be reduced by decreases in the average selling prices of products in the specialty chemicals industry. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products may have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit and financial condition. Our ability to maintain or increase our gross profit margin will continue to be dependent, in large part, upon our ability to offset decreases in average selling prices by improving production efficiency or by shifting to higher margin chemical products. In the past, MacDermid has elected to discontinue selling certain products as a result of sustained material decreases in the selling price of its products and its inability to effectively offset such decrease through shifts in operations. If we are unable to respond effectively to decreases in the average selling prices of our products in the future, our net sales, gross profit and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Further, while we may elect to discontinue products that are significantly affected by such price decreases, we cannot assure you that any such discontinuation will mitigate the related declines in our financial condition. 15 Increases in costs or reductions in the supplies of specialty and commodity chemicals we use in our manufacturing process could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We use a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. We typically purchase our major raw materials on a contract or as needed basis from outside sources. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, the financial stability of our suppliers, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, new laws or regulations, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Further, in some cases, we are limited in our ability to purchase certain raw materials from other suppliers by our supply agreements which contain certain minimum purchase requirements. Additionally, we cannot assure you that, as our supply contracts expire, we will be able to renew them or, or if they are terminated, that we will be able to obtain replacement supply agreements on terms favorable to us. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In addition, some of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks, and there have been historical periods of rapid and significant upward and downward movements in the prices of these feedstocks. We cannot always pass on these price increases to our customers due to competitive pricing pressure, and, even when we have been able to do so, there has historically been a time delay between increased raw material prices and our ability to increase the prices of our products. Any limitation on, or delay in, our ability to pass on any price increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur material costs relating to environmental and health and safety requirements or liabilities. As a manufacturer and distributor of specialty chemicals and systems, we are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated properties and occupational safety and health matters. We could in the future incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines and sanctions and third-party claims for property or natural resource damage or personal injuries as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, such laws and regulations. Liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, regardless of fault or the legality of the activities that gave rise to the contamination. Some of our manufacturing facilities have an extended history of chemical manufacturing operations or other industrial activities, and contaminants have been detected at some of our sites and offsite disposal locations. We are actively remediating certain of these properties. As of December 31, 2013, we had appropriate reserves for various non-material environmental matters. Ultimate environmental costs are difficult to predict and may vary from current estimates and reserves, and the discovery of additional contaminants at these or other sites, or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites, or third-party claims relating thereto, could result in significant additional costs. In addition, MacDermid in the past has incurred, and will in the future incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Future events, such as changes in or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations or install pollution control equipment. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our results of operations or limit our ability to operate our business. We operate production facilities in several countries. In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit greenhouse gases through various means, including emissions credits. Greenhouse gas regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production. We may be unable to pass such increased costs on to our customers, which may decrease our gross profit and results of operations. In addition, the potential impact of climate change regulation on our customers is highly uncertain and may also adversely affect our business. 16 We may be unable to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our future business success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business and fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $751 million in debt outstanding under our first lien credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · increase the amount of our interest expense, because our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions, introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In addition, the amended and restated credit agreement governing our first lien credit facility and our revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict our operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, pay cash dividends, enter new lines of business, repurchase our shares of Common Stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise take actions that we believe are in our best interest. Further, a failure by us to comply with any of these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default. An event of default under our amended and restated credit agreement, if not waived or cured, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt. Furthermore, substantially all of our domestic assets (including equity interests) secure our indebtedness under our amended and restated credit agreement. If we default on our amended and restated credit agreement, our lenders could foreclose on their security interest in such assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility depends on our level of indebtedness and our financial performance, and any deterioration in our results of operations or increase in our indebtedness could therefore have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Deterioration in our results of operations or an increase in our indebtedness may limit our access to borrowings under our revolving credit facility that is part of our credit facilities. Under the terms of our amended and restated credit agreement governing our credit facilities, if our borrowings under our revolving credit facility exceed $12.5 million in the aggregate as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, we must maintain a 6.5 to 1.0 ratio of (x) consolidated indebtedness served by a first lien minus unrestricted cash and cash equivalents to (y) consolidated EBITDA for the four most recent fiscal quarters, subject to a right to cure. Our ability to comply with these financial maintenance covenants depends, in part, on our financial performance and may be affected by events beyond our control. Any material deviations from our operating forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of these covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financings, or if we obtain them, they may not be on terms favorable to us. 17 Despite the restrictions set forth in the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Increases in the aggregate amount of our indebtedness may also result in our being unable to comply with the financial maintenance covenants, and our inability to borrow under our revolving credit facility as a result of such non-compliance could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. Chemical manufacturing is inherently hazardous and could result in accidents that disrupt our operations or expose us to significant losses or liabilities. The hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes are inherent in our operations. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our business as a whole. These potential risks include: · pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; · explosions and fires; · inclement weather and natural disasters; · terrorist attacks; · mechanical failure; · unscheduled downtime; · labor difficulties; · transportation interruptions; and · chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may result in personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs and claims by governmental entities or third parties. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities, and the loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period at our Morristown, Tennessee facility, which is our only Graphic Solutions segment sheet production facility, or any of our other major operating facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our offshore industry products are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oil production and drilling industry, and we may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. We produce water-based hydraulic control fluids for major oil companies and drilling contractors to be used for potentially hazardous offshore deep water production and drilling applications. Offshore deep water oil production and drilling are subject to hazards that include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizing, sinking and damage or loss to pipeline, subsea or other facilities from severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. A catastrophic occurrence at a location where our products are used may expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability or commercial claims. To the extent available, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is customary in our industry. Such insurance does not, however, provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of a significant offshore deep water oil production or drilling event that results in liability to us that is not fully insured could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 We are not insured against all potential risks. To the extent available, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is customary in our industry. Such insurance does not, however, provide coverage for all liabilities, including certain hazards incidental to our business, and we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. For example, the occurrence of a significant offshore deep water oil production or drilling event, or a significant business interruption in the operation of one or more of our facilities, could result in liability to us that is not insured and therefore could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our products are used in or integrated with many high-risk end products and therefore if such products were involved in a disaster or catastrophic accident, we could be involved in litigation arising out of such incidents and susceptible to significant expenses or losses. Compliance with government regulations, or penalties for non-compliance, could prevent or increase the cost of the development, distribution and sale of our products. We, our business, our products and our customers’ products are subject to regulation by many U.S. and non-U.S. supranational, national, federal, state and local governmental authorities. These regulations include customs, imports and international trade laws, export control, antitrust laws, environmental requirements and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate manufacturers generally or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of our factories and warehouse facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors. Our products and manufacturing processes are also subject to ongoing reviews by certain governmental authorities. New laws and regulations may be introduced, or existing laws and regulations may be changed or may become subject to new interpretations, which could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls, monetary fines or delays that could affect us or our customers. These effects could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products and may harm our reputation. In addition, changes in foreign governmental, federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefit costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Further, if any of the regulations to which we are subject were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our products, hurt our business and negatively impact our results of operations and share price. Further, in some circumstances, before we may sell some of our products, governmental authorities must approve these products, our manufacturing processes and facilities. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. The approval process can be costly, time consuming and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. We cannot assure you that approvals will be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate revenue from those products. We are exposed to intangible asset risk. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill in connection with the MacDermid Acquisition. Such valuation amounts are preliminary and will be updated with a third party valuation report in conjunction with purchase accounting. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of an acquired business. We do not amortize goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives; rather, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment periodically. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired by comparing the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying value. Goodwill will be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. 19 Obligations and expenses related to our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans in the United States and a number of other countries. Changes in the market value of plan assets, investment returns, discount rates, mortality rates, regulations and the rate of increase in compensation levels may affect the funded status of our plans and could cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status of the plans. As of December 31, 2013, our U.S. pension plans were underfunded by approximately $10.4 million and our U.S. post-retirement benefits plans were underfunded by approximately $6.8 million. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on our financial condition. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Part of our strategy is to grow through acquisitions. Consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from the acquisitions. In connection with potential future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with acquisitions include: · unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; · conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; · coordinating new product and process development; · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; · negotiating with labor unions; and · increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of businesses we may acquire. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Business disruptions could seriously harm our net sales and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to extraordinary events, including natural disasters, political disruptions, terrorist attacks, acts of war and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our net sales and increase our costs and expenses. Some areas, including parts of the East Coast and Midwest of the United States, have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, major power shortages and blackouts, significant floods and strong tornadoes and other storms. These blackouts, floods and storms could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. Similar losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters for which we are predominantly self-insured. Productivity initiatives aimed at making our company more profitable and our operations more efficient are part of our strategy. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the implementation of such productivity initiatives. Our initiatives may reduce our workforce in our manufacturing, research and development, selling, technical, general and administrative functions. We cannot assure you that the assumptions underlying our decisions as to which reductions and eliminations to make as part of these operational restructuring initiatives will prove to be correct and, accordingly, we may determine that we have reduced or eliminated resources that are necessary to, or desirable for, our business. Any reduction or elimination of resources made in error could adversely affect our ability to operate or grow our business and may negatively impact our results of operations. Further, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity initiatives in which we may engage in the future. 20 We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are a defendant in numerous lawsuits that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business. These suits concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, labor-related matters, patent infringement, environmental proceedings, property damage and personal injury matters. For example, we are currently a defendant in a patent infringement claim, which has been vigorously opposed by us, relating to technology that is important to us, although we do not expect this claim to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or reputation. The ultimate resolution of such claims, proceedings and lawsuits is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, our estimates of liability, if any, are subject to change and actual results may materially differ from our estimates. If there is an unfavorable resolution of a matter, our reputation may be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will have any or adequate insurance coverage to protect us from any adverse resolution. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end use markets, and any successful claim for damages could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Many of our products provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that are sold to consumers who could potentially bring product liability suits related to such products. Our sale of these products therefore involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. While we endeavor to protect ourselves from such claims and exposures in our contractual negotiations, we cannot assure you that our efforts in this regard will ultimately protect us from any such claims. We will face new challenges, increased costs and administrative responsibilities as an independent public company, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company”. As a publicly traded company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with certain laws, regulations and requirements, including certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), certain regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and certain of the NYSE requirements applicable to public companies. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of the time of our Board of Directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We are required to: · institute a more comprehensive compliance framework; · update, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC; · prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; · revise our existing internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; · comply with SEC rules and guidelines requiring registrants to provide their financial statements in interactive data format using eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”); · involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and · enhance our investor relations function. 21 However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), we are permitted to, and intend to, take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” We are an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we had total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our Common Stock pursuant to an effective registration statement, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a “large accelerated issuer” as defined under the federal securities laws. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company,” we will not be required to: · have an auditor report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley; · comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis); · submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholders advisory votes pursuant to the “say on frequency” and “say on pay” provisions (requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve compensation of certain executive officers) and the “say on golden parachute” provisions (requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve golden parachute arrangements for certain executive officers in connection with mergers and certain other business combinations) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010; and · include detailed compensation discussion and analysis in our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and instead may provide a reduced level of disclosure concerning executive compensation. Although we intend to rely on the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act, the exact implications of the JOBS Act for us are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies. In addition, as our business grows, we may no longer satisfy the conditions of an emerging growth company. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of all of the benefits from the JOBS Act. In addition, we also expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price. As a publicly traded company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which will require, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2014, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, as of the later of the filing of such annual report and the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will require a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of December 31 of a particular year if (1) we had gross revenue of $1 billion or more in such year, (2) the market value of our shares of Common Stock that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 in such year or (3) at any point in such year, we would have issued more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt during the three-year period prior thereto. During the course of our testing, we may identify weaknesses or deficiencies. If such weaknesses or deficiencies are not remediated in time, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect the regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and, when applicable to us, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations. 22 We are an “emerging growth company” and our election to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies may result in our financial statements not being comparable to those of other public companies. As a result of this and other reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies”, our shares of Common Stock may be less attractive to investors. In addition to taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements listed above, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We may elect to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may choose not to comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for public companies other than “emerging growth companies”. As a result of such election, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of companies that comply with public company effective dates of such new or revised accounting standards. We cannot predict if investors will find our Common Stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less attractive trading market for our Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock An active trading market for our Common Stock may not develop. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market on the NYSE or how liquid that market might become. An active public market for our Common Stock may not develop or be sustained. If an active public market does not develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares of Common Stock at a price that is attractive to you, or at all. We have numerous equity instruments outstanding that would require us to issue additional shares of Common Stock. Therefore, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interests and the future issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock, or the anticipation of such issuances, could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We currently have outstanding numerous equity instruments outstanding that would require us to issue additional shares of Common Stock for no or a fixed amount of additional consideration. Specifically, as of March 26, 2014, we had outstanding the following: · 2,000,000 shares of Series A preferred stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), which were automatically converted from ordinary shares held by Mariposa Acquisition, LLC and Berggruen Acquisition Holdings, IV, Ltd. (collectively, the “Founder Entities”) before the Domestication, and which are convertible into shares of our Common Stock, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the Founder Entities; · 4,573,602 warrants, which will be exercisable for 1,524,534 shares of our Common Stock at $11.50 per share; · 8,905,776 exchange rights which will require us to issue shares of our Common Stock for shares of PDH common stock at the option of the holder, on a one-for-one basis, at 25% per year after the earlier of October 31, 2014 or a change of control of Platform; and · 250,000 options which are exercisable to purchase share of our Common Stock, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the holder. In addition, beginning in 2014, if the average stock price of our shares of Common Stock exceeds $11.50 per share during the calendar year, we are required to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock in the form of shares of our Common Stock equal to 20% of the appreciation over $10.00 of the market price for the last ten days of our calendar year, which could have a dilutive impact on, and reduce the value of, our outstanding Common Stock. For more information of the Series A Preferred Stock, see the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. We may also issue additional shares of our Common Stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our Common Stock in connection with future acquisitions, future issuances of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock. 23 We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our Common Stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized to create and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock, and, with respect to each series, to determine number of shares constituting the series and the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, which may include dividend rights, conversion or exchange rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms and liquidation preferences, without stockholder approval. If we create and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding Common Stock. Our Board of Directors could, without stockholder approval, issue preferred stock with voting and other rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our Common Stock and which could have certain anti-takeover effects. We cannot assure you that we will declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments. To the extent we intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock, we will pay such dividends at such times (if any) and in such amounts (if any) as our Board of Directors determines appropriate and in accordance with applicable law. Payments of such dividends will be dependent on the availability of any dividends or other distributions from MacDermid and its subsidiaries to us. Additionally, we are subject to certain restrictions in our amended and restated credit agreement which may prohibit or limit our ability to pay dividends. We can therefore give no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends going forward or as to the amount of such dividends, if any. We are governed by Delaware law, which has anti-takeover implications. As a result of the Domestication, we and our organizational documents are governed by Delaware law rather than British Virgin Islands law. The application of Delaware law to us may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts or a change in control. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our Common Stock. A Delaware corporation may opt out of this provision either with an express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or in an amendment to its certificate of incorporation or by-laws approved by its stockholders. We have not opted out of this provision. Section 203 could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. We operate as a holding company and our principal source of operating cash will be income received from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. As a result, we are dependent on the income generated by our subsidiaries to meet our expenses and operating cash requirements. The amount of distributions and dividends, if any, which may be paid from our subsidiaries to us will depend on many factors, including results of operations and financial condition, limits on dividends under applicable law, its constitutional documents, documents governing any indebtedness of the respective subsidiary, and other factors which may be outside our control. If our subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be unable to pay our expenses or make distributions and dividends on the shares of Common Stock. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 