Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to ERI’s Capital Structure and Equity Ownership We have significant indebtedness On July 23, 2015, the Company issued $375 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.0% senior notes due 2023 (“Senior Notes”) and entered into a new $425.0 million seven year term loan (the “New Term Loan”) and a new $150.0 million five year revolving credit facility (the “New Revolving Credit Facility” and, together with the New Term Loan, the “New Credit Facility”). As a result of our New Credit Facility and outstanding Senior Notes, we have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, we and our restricted subsidiaries had $891.4 million of total indebtedness outstanding, of which $516.4 million was secured, and $56.5 million of availability under the New Credit Facility. This indebtedness may have important negative consequences for us, including: •limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; •increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our ability to react to, changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, general corporate or other obligations; •subjecting us to a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and distributions, make acquisitions and dispositions, borrow additional funds, and make capital expenditures and other investments; •limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of its business because we must dedicate a significant portion of these funds to make principal and/or interest payments on our outstanding debt; •exposing us to interest rate risk due to the variable interest rate on borrowings under our New Credit Facility; •causing our failure to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our current or future indebtedness, which could cause a default under such indebtedness and which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; and •affecting our ability to renew gaming and other licenses necessary to conduct our business. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness 14 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) and our credit agreement governing our New Credit Facility restrict, but will not completely prohibit, us from doing so. As of December 31, 2015, we had $56.5 million of borrowing availability under our New Credit Facility. The Indenture will also allow us to incur certain other additional secured and unsecured debt and does not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We will also be required to obtain the consent of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities to refinance material portions of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility and the Indenture limits the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. The Indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities The credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility and the Indenture will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional debt; •create liens or other encumbrances; •pay dividends or make other restricted payments; •agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; •prepay subordinated indebtedness; •make investments, loans or other guarantees; •sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or •make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum total leverage ratio covenants. 15 Table of Contents As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The restrictions caused by such covenants could also place us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility, Indenture or other indebtedness that we may incur in the future could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Moreover, in the event that such indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance it on acceptable terms, or at all. We are a holding company and will depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and repayment of our indebtedness We are structured as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Our only significant asset is the capital stock or other equity interests of our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company, we conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our principal source of cash flow will be dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments or distributions to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to pay interest or principal on our indebtedness. Our ability to service all of our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash flow, which is subject to factors that are beyond our control Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, a further deterioration in the economic performance of our casino properties may cause us to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The market price of ERI’s common stock could fluctuate significantly The U.S. securities markets in general have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The market price of ERI’s common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of ERI’s common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in, or have a material adverse effect on, the stock price or trading volume of ERI’s common stock include: •general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the hotel and casino industries; •actual or expected variations in operating results; •differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; •changes in recommendations by securities analysts; •operations and stock performance of competitors; •accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; •significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by ERI or by competitors; 16 Table of Contents •sales of ERI’s common stock or other securities in the future, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •conditions and trends in the gaming and entertainment industries; •changes in the estimate of the future size and growth of our markets; and •changes in reserves for professional liability claims. We cannot assure you that the stock price of ERI common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to ERI’s performance. If the market price of ERI common stock fluctuates significantly, ERI may become the subject of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. ERI has not historically paid dividends and the credit agreement governing the New Credit Facility and the Indenture contain restrictive covenants limiting our ability to pay dividends ERI does not currently expect to pay dividends on its common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of the ERI board of directors and will depend upon among other factors, ERI’s earnings, cash requirements, financial condition, requirements to comply with the covenants under its debt instruments, legal considerations, and other factors that the ERI board of directors deems relevant. If ERI does not pay dividends, then the return on an investment in its common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its stock price. There is no guarantee that ERI’s common stock will appreciate in value or maintain its value. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the U.S. and global economies may negatively impact our access to financing During recent years, a confluence of many factors has contributed to diminished expectations for the U.S. economy and increased market volatility for publicly traded securities, including the common shares and notes issued by public companies. These factors include the availability and cost of credit, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment. These conditions have combined to create an unprecedented level of market volatility, which could negatively impact our ability to access capital and financing (including financing necessary to refinance our existing indebtedness), on terms and at prices acceptable to us, that we would otherwise need in connection with the operation of our businesses. Risk Factors Relating to our Operations Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy Consumer demand for casino hotel and racetrack properties such as ours is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the associated impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of declines in consumer confidence in the economy, including the recent housing, employment and credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, which have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our results of operations. Increases in gasoline prices, including increases prompted by global political and economic instabilities, can adversely affect our operations because most of our patrons travel to our properties by car or on airlines that may pass on increases in fuel costs to passengers in the form of higher ticket prices. Economic downturns and other related factors which impact discretionary consumer spending and other economic activities have had direct effects on 17 Table of Contents our business and the tourism industry in the past. We cannot be sure how these factors will impact our operations in the future or the extent of the impact. We face substantial competition in the hotel and casino industry and expect that such competition will continue The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including land‑based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American reservations and other forms of legalized gaming. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Certain states have legalized casino gaming and other states may legalize gaming in the future. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Native American reservations near our markets or changes to gaming laws in states surrounding Nevada, Louisiana, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, or Ohio could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with gaming facilities in other jurisdictions with dockside gaming facilities, state sponsored lotteries, on‑and‑off track pari‑mutuel wagering, card clubs, riverboat casinos and other forms of legalized gambling. In addition, various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada and New Jersey and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets in which we operate. There has been significant competition in our markets as a result of the expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes in prior years. For example, casino gaming is currently prohibited in several jurisdictions from which the Shreveport/Bossier City market draws customers, primarily Texas. The Texas legislature has from time to time considered proposals to legalize gaming, and there can be no assurance that casino gaming will not be approved in Texas in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, since visitors from California comprise a significant portion of our customer base in Reno, we also compete with Native American gaming operations in California. Native American tribes are allowed to operate slot machines, lottery games and banking and percentage games on Native American lands. Although many existing Native American gaming facilities in northern California are modest compared to the Nevada properties, a number of Native American tribes have established large‑scale gaming facilities in California. Additionally, a hotel casino opened in Bossier City across the Red River from Eldorado Shreveport opened in June 2013 and in December 2014, a land‑based opened in Lake Charles, Louisiana approximately 200 miles south of Eldorado Shreveport, but closer to the Houston, Texas market. With respect to our MTR Gaming facilities, an additional license has been granted for a casino to be located in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, approximately 45 miles from Mountaineer and 90 miles from Presque Isle Downs, which would result in further competition for both of those properties. Further, gaming facilities in Ohio that commenced operations in recent years, including the Horseshoe Casino Cleveland, Hollywood Casino Columbus, ThistleDown Racino, Austintown, Hollywood Mahoning Casino, Hollywood Casinos, at Dayton Raceway and Northfield Park, present significant competition for Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs. Increased competition may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our properties to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities. Because we are highly leveraged, after satisfying our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake these expenditures or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected. We will be subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business The ownership and operation of casino gaming, riverboat and horseracing facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation, and regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming businesses and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines, and take other actions, each of which poses a significant risk to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently hold all state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our present gaming operations, but we must periodically apply to renew many of our licenses and registrations. 18 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if additional laws or regulations are adopted or existing laws or regulations are amended, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. As an example, on August 26, 2014, the Board of Health of Hancock County, West Virginia adopted and approved the Clean Air Regulation Act of 2014 (“Regulation”), which became effective July 1, 2015. The Regulation bans smoking in public places in Hancock County including at Mountaineer. To comply with the Regulation upon its effective date, Mountaineer built a 9,300 square foot smoking pavilion which opened on July 1, 2015 and currently houses 216 slot machines and six table games. Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate the impact of the smoking ban, the Regulation has had a negative impact on our business and results of operations at Mountaineer and we expect that it will continue to negatively impact our business and results of operations and such impact may be material. Any of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control Administration, the West Virginia Lottery Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, the Ohio Lottery Commission, and the Ohio State Racing Commission (which we refer to collectively as the Gaming Authorities) may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective jurisdictions. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by any of the Gaming Authorities under these circumstances must be paid by the applicant, and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. If any of the Gaming Authorities determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming or horse racing laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of their approvals, if, without the prior approval of the applicable Gaming Authority, we conduct certain business with the unsuitable person. Our officers, directors, and key employees will also be subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If any of the applicable Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the Gaming Authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could materially adversely affect our gaming operations. Applicable gaming laws and regulations restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of applicable Gaming Authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If state regulatory authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationships with that person, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, gaming companies are generally subject to significant revenue based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We rely on our key personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos and race tracks 19 Table of Contents Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep our senior executives and highly qualified employees. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not succeed in hiring or retaining the executives and other employees that we need. A sudden loss of or inability to replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, the operation of our business requires qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming and horse racing industry experience and qualifications who are able to obtain the requisite licenses and approval from the applicable Gaming Authorities. While not currently the case, there has from time to time been a shortage of skilled labor in our markets. In addition to limitations that may otherwise exist in the supply of skilled labor, the continued expansion of gaming near our facilities, including the expansion of Native American gaming, may make it more difficult for us to attract qualified individuals. While we believe that we will continue to be able to attract and retain qualified employees, shortages of skilled labor will make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain the services of a satisfactory number of qualified employees, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result. We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari‑mutuel clerks to operate our business The Federal Interstate Horse Racing Act and the state racing laws in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at those racetracks. In addition, in order to operate slot machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the slot machines (a “proceeds agreement”) with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers and with a representative of a majority of the pari‑mutuel clerks. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at any of our racetracks, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at the applicable racetrack. In addition, if we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs (including if we do not have in place the legally required proceeds agreement with the Mountaineer pari‑mutuel clerks union), we will not be permitted to continue our gaming operations at those facilities. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. Particularly, in light of current support for changes to federal and state labor laws, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future. Because portions of the land on which our facilities are situated are leased, the termination of such leases could adversely affect our business Resorts owns the parcel on which Eldorado Reno is located, except for approximately 30,000 square feet which is leased from C. S. & Y. Associates, a general partnership of which Donald Carano, father of Gary L. Carano, is a general partner (the “CSY Lease”). The CSY Lease expires on June 30, 2027. If Resorts defaults on a payment under the CSY Lease or if certain other specified events were to occur, C. S. & Y. Associates has the right to terminate the lease and take possession of the property located on the premises. If C. S. & Y. Associates were to exercise these rights, this could adversely affect our business. A subsidiary of Resorts is party to a ground lease with the City of Shreveport for the land on which Eldorado Shreveport was built (the “Shreveport Lease”). The Shreveport Lease automatically renewed on June 17, 2015, and will be available for automatic renewal again on December 20, 2020. If Resorts defaults on a payment under the Shreveport 20 Table of Contents Lease or if certain other specified events were to occur, the City of Shreveport could terminate the lease. If the City of Shreveport were to exercise this right, this could adversely affect our business. Circus Reno is situated on a three block area in downtown Reno, of which approximately 90% of the underlying land is owned by the Company and the remainder is held under two separate leases which expire in 2032 and 2033, respectively. If the Company defaults on a payment under the leases, the lessor could terminate the lease. Because we own real property, we will be subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of solid, animal and hazardous wastes and exposure to hazardous materials. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently subject to change. In addition, our horseracing facilities are subject to laws and regulations that address the impacts of manure and wastewater generated by Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (“CAFO”) on water quality, including, but not limited to, storm water discharges. CAFO regulations include permit requirements and water quality discharge standards. Enforcement of CAFO regulations has been receiving increased governmental attention. Compliance with these and other environmental laws can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. We have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating, or contributing to remediation costs related to, contamination located at or near certain of our facilities, including contamination related to underground storage tanks and groundwater contamination arising from prior uses of land on which certain of our facilities are located. In addition, we have been, and may in the future be, required to manage, abate, remove or contain manure and wastewater generated by concentrated animal feeding operations due to our racetrack operations, mold, lead, asbestos‑containing materials or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. Moreover, violations can result in significant fines or penalties and, in some instances, interruption or cessation of operations. We are also subject to laws and regulations that create liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of regulated materials into the environment. Certain of these laws and regulations impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on a current or previous owner or operator of property for the costs of remediating regulated materials on or emanating from its property. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial. An earthquake, flood, act of terrorism other natural disasters could adversely affect our business Although we maintain insurance that is customary and appropriate for our business, each of our insurance policies is subject to certain exclusions. In addition, in some cases our property insurance coverage is combined among certain of our properties or is otherwise in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding our facilities in the event of a total loss. Such losses may occur as a result of any number of casualty events, including as a result of earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or other severe weather conditions. In particular, the Reno area has been, and may in the future be, subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters and Eldorado Shreveport is located in a designated flood zone. Inadequate insurance or lack of available insurance for these and other certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of the casualty event or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered under our policies. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to fund replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. In addition, upon the expiration of our current policies which expire in August 2016 (subject to annual renewal), we cannot assure that adequate coverage will be available at economically justifiable rates, if at all. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure All of our facilities will generally be subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. These risks are particularly pronounced at Eldorado Shreveport’s riverboat and dockside facilities because of their location on and adjacent to water. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our business and financial condition From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our respective businesses. In particular, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security Our operations require that we collect customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our customers. In addition, non‑compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non‑compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data, including due to cyber‑attack, system failure, computer virus or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, employees or employees of third party vendors, may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Our operations have historically been subject to seasonal variations and quarterly fluctuations in operating results, and we can expect to experience such variations and fluctuation in the future Historically, our operations have typically been subject to seasonal variations. Our Reno, Nevada properties’ strongest operating results have generally occurred in the second and third quarters and the weakest results have generally occurred during the period from November through February when weather conditions adversely affected operating results. In the Reno market, excessive snowfall during the winter months can make travel to the Reno area more difficult. This often results in significant declines in traffic on major highways, particularly on routes to and from Northern California, and causes a decline in customer volume. Furthermore, management believes that approximately two‑thirds of visitors to the Reno market arrive by some form of ground transportation. In addition, winter conditions can frequently adversely affect transportation routes to Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs and cause cancellations of live horse racing. As a result, unfavorable seasonal conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In general, it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain business interruption coverage for casualties resulting from severe weather, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain casualty insurance coverage at affordable rates, if at all, for casualties resulting from severe weather. 22 Table of Contents Because we will be heavily dependent upon hotel/casino and related operations that are conducted in certain limited regions, we will be subject to greater risks than a company that is geographically or otherwise more diversified Our business is heavily dependent upon hotel/casino and related operations that are conducted in three discrete markets. As a result, we are still subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company that has greater geographical diversity. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: •local economic and competitive conditions; •inaccessibility due to weather conditions, road construction or closure of primary access routes; •changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; •natural and other disasters, including earthquakes and flooding; •a decline in the number of residents in or near, or visitors to, our operations; and •a decrease in gaming activities at any of our facilities. Any of the factors outlined above could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business may cause us to incur impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets or long‑lived assets We test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. We will also be required to consider whether the fair values of any of our investments accounted for under the equity method have declined below their carrying value whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that recorded values may not be recoverable. Estimated fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on estimated future results of the investee and market indicators of the terminal year capitalization rate. If any such declines are considered to be other than temporary, we will be required to record a write‑down to estimated fair value. Security concerns, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical events could have a material adverse effect on our future operations Security concerns, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical events can have a material adverse effect on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming and entertainment industries in general and our business in particular. We cannot predict the extent to which any future security alerts, terrorist attacks or other geopolitical events might impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to the Circus Reno/Silver Legacy Purchase and the Merger We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of Circus Reno/Silver Legacy Purchase and the Merger and we may encounter difficulties in integrating Circus Reno, Silver Legacy and the MTR Gaming properties with our operations Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the Silver Legacy and Circus Reno will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our existing business with those businesses. Combining independent businesses is a complex, costly and time‑consuming process. In addition, while we have made significant progress in integrating the operations of MTR Gaming into our operations, the Merger was only recently consummated and completion of the integration of five different properties within a relatively short period of time may create additional challenges. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the businesses and operations of Eldorado, MTR Gaming, the Silver Legacy and Circus Reno. The integration process may 23 Table of Contents disrupt the combined business and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude the realization of the full benefits of our acquisition transactions. In addition, we may pursue additional acquisition opportunities in the future, which would present further integration challenges. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses that we have acquired or propose to acquire or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the combined company’s results of operations may not meet our expectations, which would then make it difficult to service our outstanding debt obligations. The overall integration of the businesses may result in unanticipated problems. We may encounter unexpected expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships as we integrate the acquired business, all of which could divert management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: · the diversion of certain management’s attention to integration matters; · difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our business with that of MTR Gaming, Silver Legacy and Circus Reno; · difficulties in integrating operations, business practices, internal controls and systems; · difficulties in assimilating employees; · difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; · challenges in retaining existing customers and suppliers; · challenges in obtaining new customers and suppliers; · potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the acquisitions; and · challenges in retaining and attracting key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the company. Further, even if the operations of the businesses of the Company, MTR Gaming, Silver Legacy and Circus Reno are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the transactions, or the full benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Our estimates and judgments related to the acquisition accounting models used to record the purchase price allocation may be inaccurate Our management will make significant accounting judgments and estimates for the application of acquisition accounting under GAAP and the underlying valuation models. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods if our accounting judgments and estimates related to these models prove to be inaccurate. 24 Table of Contents We may be required to recognize impairment charges for other intangible assets In accordance with GAAP, our management periodically assesses our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect results of operations in the periods recognized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 