ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on Ensign and other healthcare operators to make payments to us under leases, and an event that materially and adversely affects their business, financial position or results of operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. Ensign is the lessee of the majority of our properties pursuant to the Ensign Master Leases and, therefore, is the primary source of our revenues. Additionally, because each Ensign Master Lease is a triple-net lease, we depend on Ensign to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with these leased properties and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business. There can be no assurance that Ensign will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its payment obligations under the Ensign Master Leases. The inability or unwillingness of Ensign to meet its rent obligations under the Ensign Master Leases could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders as required to maintain our status as a REIT. The inability of Ensign to satisfy its other obligations under the Ensign Master Leases, such as the payment of insurance, taxes and utilities, could materially and adversely affect the condition of the leased properties as well as the business, financial position and results of operations of Ensign. For these reasons, if Ensign were to experience a material and adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations, our business, financial position or results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. Ensign and other healthcare operators to which we lease properties are dependent on the healthcare industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with healthcare reform, which could materially and adversely affect Ensign’s and our other tenants’ business, financial position or results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”) were signed into law. Together, these two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. These new laws include a large number of health-related provisions, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Because substantially all of our properties are used as healthcare properties, we are impacted by the risks associated with the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform. While the expansion of healthcare coverage may result in some additional demand for services provided by Ensign and other healthcare operators, reimbursement may be lower than the cost required to provide such services, which could materially and adversely affect the ability of Ensign and other healthcare operators to generate profits and pay rent. Due to our dependence on rental payments from Ensign as our primary source of revenues, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under, or to terminate, the Ensign Master Leases. Failure by Ensign to comply with the terms of the Ensign Master Leases or to comply with the healthcare regulations to which the leased properties are subject could require us to find another lessee for such leased property and there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments by Ensign. In such event, we may be unable to locate a suitable lessee at similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues. Tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Ensign and other healthcare operators to which we lease properties are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to governmental healthcare reimbursement programs. See “Business — 17 Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement – Overview.” As a result, Ensign and other tenants are subject to the following risks, among others: • statutory and regulatory changes; • retroactive rate adjustments; • recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; • administrative rulings; • policy interpretations; • payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; • government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and • interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits. Healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our tenants’ costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. The failure of Ensign or any of our other tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially and adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. Tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate our healthcare facilities or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. The healthcare operators to which we lease properties are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. Our tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. For example, operations at our properties may require a license, registration, certificate of need, provider agreement or certification. Failure of any tenant to obtain, or the loss of, any required license, registration, certificate of need, provider agreement or certification would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such tenant. Additionally, failure of our tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect facilities owned by us, and therefore could materially and adversely affect us. See “Business — Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement — Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need.” 18 Our tenants depend on reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced, which could cause our tenants’ revenues to decline and could affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The federal government and a number of states are currently managing budget deficits, which may put pressure on Congress and the states to decrease reimbursement rates for our tenants, with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in Medicaid due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement to our tenants under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Potential reductions in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement to our tenants could reduce the revenues of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants could delay or prevent our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants. We receive substantially all of our income as rent payments under leases of our properties. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants’ businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our tenants may fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant failures to make rent payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders (which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or service our indebtedness). This risk is magnified in situations where we lease multiple properties to a single tenant, as a multiple property tenant failure could reduce or eliminate rental revenue from multiple properties. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of the leases, we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, hire third-party managers to operate the property or sell the property. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease a property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, find another qualified tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us. It may be more difficult to find a replacement tenant for a healthcare property than it would be to find a replacement tenant for a general commercial property due to the specialized nature of the business. Even if we are able to find a suitable replacement tenant for a property, transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations, which may affect our ability to successfully transition a property. If any lease expires or is terminated, we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that property until it is re-leased or sold. If we experience a significant number of un-leased properties, our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If one or more of our tenants files for bankruptcy relief, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the leases and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs. 19 The geographic concentration of some of our facilities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas. Our properties are located in twelve different states, with concentrations in Texas and California. The properties in these two states accounted for approximately 31% and 19%, respectively, of the total operational beds and units in our portfolio, as of December 31, 2014 and approximately 25% and 25%, respectively, of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2014. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules, regulations and reimbursement rates or criteria, changes in demographics, state funding, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand and/or reimbursement for skilled nursing services in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our tenants’ revenue, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our facilities located in Texas are especially susceptible to natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and flooding, and our facilities located in California are particularly susceptible to natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes and mudslides. These acts of nature may cause disruption to our tenants, their employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our tenants’ patients and businesses. In order to provide care for their patients, our tenants are dependent on consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, utilities and other goods to our facilities, and the availability of employees to provide services at the facilities. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities were interrupted in any material respect due to a natural disaster or other reasons, it would have a significant impact on our facilities and our tenants’ businesses at those facilities. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster may require that our tenants evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for their patients. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our tenants’ patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our tenants’ business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our tenants’ businesses to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. We pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek other strategic opportunities in the ordinary course of our business, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or significant costs, and we may not fully realize the potential benefits of such transactions. We pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities in the ordinary course of our business. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. We may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed and in combining our operations if such a transaction is completed. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, there is no assurance that we would fully realize the potential benefits of such a transaction. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources and lower costs of capital. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of suitable properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance 20 acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further acquisitions might be limited or curtailed. Transactions involving properties we might seek to acquire entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including that the investment’s performance will fail to meet expectations or that the tenant, operator or manager will underperform. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties. Our tenants which operate SNFs and other healthcare facilities must be licensed under applicable state law and, depending upon the type of facility, certified or approved as providers under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Prior to the transfer of the operations of such healthcare properties to successor operators, the new operator generally must become licensed under state law and, in certain states, receive change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws (which provide for a certification that the state has made a determination that a need exists for the beds located on the property) and, if applicable, Medicare and Medicaid provider approvals. If an existing lease is terminated or expires and a new tenant is found, then any delays in the new tenant receiving regulatory approvals from the applicable federal, state or local government agencies, or the inability to receive such approvals, may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. We may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. A new or replacement tenant to operate one or more of our healthcare facilities may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s particular operations. If a current tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to release the space. These expenditures or renovations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and cannot readily be sold unless the underlying secured mortgage indebtedness is concurrently repaid. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. A downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for acceptable prices or on other acceptable terms. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt and our variable rate debt obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) and the variable rate portion of our General Electric Capital Corporation secured mortgage debt (“GECC loan”). This increased cost could make the 21 financing of any acquisition more costly, as well as lower our current period earnings. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the access third parties have to credit, thereby decreasing the amount they are willing to pay for our assets and consequently limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Further, the dividend yield on our common stock, as a percentage of the price of such common stock, will influence the price of such common stock. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Gregory K. Stapley and other key employees. If we lose the services of Mr. Stapley or any of our other key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We or our tenants may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense. Our lease agreements with operators (including the Ensign Master Leases) require that the tenant maintain comprehensive liability and hazard insurance, and we maintain customary insurance for the ILFs that we own and operate. However, there are certain types of losses (including, but not limited to, losses arising from environmental conditions or of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods) that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property. If one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from the property. If the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenue for our tenants or us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate them or us for such loss of revenue. If one of our tenants experiences such a loss, it may be unable to satisfy its payment obligations to us under its lease with us. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Neither we nor our tenants carry environmental insurance on our properties. Although we generally require our tenants, as operators of our healthcare properties, to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the tenant to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the failure to 22 remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. Although we will be generally indemnified by our tenants for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. The impact of healthcare reform legislation on us and our tenants cannot accurately be predicted. Legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures each year that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. We cannot accurately predict whether any future legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our tenants and, thus, our business. Notably, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. The passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that has expanded healthcare coverage to millions of uninsured people and provides for significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system over the next several years. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursements for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care hospitals and SNFs, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies. This comprehensive healthcare legislation provides for extensive future rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. While we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal healthcare programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our tenants and, thus, on our business. The Supreme Court’s decision upholding the constitutionality of the individual mandate while striking down the provisions linking federal funding of state Medicaid programs with a federally mandated expansion of those programs has not reduced the uncertain impact that the law will have on healthcare delivery systems over the next decade. We can expect that the federal authorities will continue to implement the law, but, because of the Supreme Court’s mixed ruling, the implementation will take longer than originally expected, with a commensurate increase in the period of uncertainty regarding the law’s full long term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, which also may impact our business. For instance, on April 1, 2014, the President signed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, which, among other things, requires the Centers for Medicare & and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to measure, track, and publish readmission rates of SNFs by 2017 and implement a value-based purchasing program for SNFs (the “SNF VBP Program”) by October 1, 2018. The SNF VBP Program will increase Medicare reimbursement rates for SNFs that achieve certain levels of quality performance measures to be developed by CMS, relative to other facilities. The value-based payments authorized by the SNF VBP Program will be funded by reducing Medicare payment for all SNFs by 2% and redistributing up to 70% of those funds to high-performing SNFs. If Medicare reimbursement provided to our healthcare tenants is reduced under the SNF VBP Program, that reduction may have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us. Risks Related to the Spin-Off We may not achieve some or all the benefits that we expected to achieve from the Spin-Off. The Spin-Off may not have the full or any strategic and financial benefits that we expected, or such benefits may be delayed or may not materialize at all. The anticipated benefits of the Spin-Off were based on a number of assumptions, which may prove incorrect. For example, we believed that the Spin-Off would allow us to acquire 23 properties in different asset classes, diversify our tenant base and reduce our financing costs. In the event that the Spin-Off does not have these and other expected benefits for any reason, our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected (which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or service our indebtedness). We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as a separate and independent publicly traded company primarily focused on owning a portfolio of healthcare properties. We have limited historical operations as an independent company and we are in the process of putting in place the infrastructure and personnel necessary to operate as a separate and independent publicly traded company. As a result of the Spin-Off, we are directly subject to, and responsible for, regulatory compliance, including the reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes Oxley Act”), and compliance with NASDAQ Global Market’s (“NASDAQ”) continued listing requirements, as well as compliance with generally applicable tax and accounting rules. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports about our business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which require significant resources and management oversight. As an emerging growth company, we are excluded from Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which otherwise would have required our auditors to formally attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm cannot provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, the market price of our common stock could decline (which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital). Ensign provides certain transition services to us pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement, which allows us time to build the infrastructure and retain the personnel necessary to operate as a separate and independent publicly traded company without relying on such transition services. Following the expiration of the Transition Services Agreement, Ensign will be under no obligation to provide further assistance to us. Because our business has not been historically operated as a separate and independent publicly traded company, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement the infrastructure or retain the personnel necessary to operate as a separate and independent publicly traded company or that we will not incur costs in excess of anticipated costs to establish such infrastructure and retain such personnel. If the Spin-Off were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Ensign and CareTrust could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify Ensign for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Ensign. Ensign has received from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) a private letter ruling (the “IRS Ruling”), which provides substantially to the effect that, on the basis of certain facts presented and representations and assumptions set forth in the request submitted to the IRS, the Spin-Off will qualify as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code. The IRS Ruling does not address certain requirements for tax-free treatment of the Spin-Off under Section 355 of the Code, and Ensign received a tax opinion from its tax advisors, substantially to the effect that, with respect to such requirements on which the IRS will not rule, such requirements have been satisfied. The IRS Ruling, and the tax opinion that Ensign received from its tax advisors, rely on, among other things, certain facts, representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our and Ensign’s businesses, and the IRS Ruling and the tax opinion would not be valid if such facts, representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine the Spin-Off should be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the facts, representations, 24 assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS Ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the IRS Ruling. If the Spin-Off ultimately is determined to be taxable, Ensign would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the shares of our common stock held by Ensign on the distribution date over Ensign’s tax basis in such shares. Such taxable gain and resulting tax liability would be substantial. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Ensign (the “Tax Matters Agreement”), we generally are responsible for any taxes imposed on Ensign that arise from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, within the meaning of Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to certain actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS Ruling or the representation letter provided in connection with the tax opinion relating to the Spin-Off. Our indemnification obligations to Ensign and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Ensign under the circumstance set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may be subject to substantial tax liabilities. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. Our ability to engage in significant strategic transactions and equity issuances may be limited or restricted in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the Spin-Off. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to Ensign under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our stock or Ensign’s stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off. The process for determining whether an acquisition or issuance triggering these provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. Any acquisitions or issuances of our stock or Ensign stock within a two-year period after the Spin-Off generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Ensign, as applicable, may be able to rebut that presumption. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Ensign, we also are generally responsible for any taxes imposed on Ensign that arise from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, within the meaning of Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS Ruling or the representation letter provided to counsel in connection with the tax opinion. Our agreements with Ensign may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The agreements related to the Spin-Off, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Ensign Master Leases, the Opportunities Agreement (the “Opportunities Agreement”), the Tax Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement and the Employee Matters Agreement (the “Employee Matters Agreement”) we entered into with Ensign, were negotiated in the context of the Spin-Off while we were still a wholly owned 25 subsidiary of Ensign. As a result, although those agreements are intended to reflect arm’s-length terms, they may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. Conversely, certain agreements related to the Spin-Off may include terms that are more favorable than those that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Following expiration of those agreements, we may have to enter into new agreements with unaffiliated third parties, and such agreements may include terms that are less favorable to us. The terms of the agreements being negotiated in the context of the Spin-Off concern, among other things, divisions and allocations of assets and liabilities and rights and obligations, between Ensign and us. Our consolidated and combined financial data included in this Annual Report do not purport to be indicative of the results we would have achieved as a separate and independent publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of future results. Our consolidated and combined financial data included in this Annual Report may not reflect our business, financial position or results of operations had we been a separate and independent publicly traded company during the periods presented, or what our business, financial position or results of operations will be in the future as a separate and independent publicly traded company. Prior to the Spin-Off, our business was operated by Ensign as part of one corporate organization and was not operated as a stand-alone company. Because we did not acquire ownership of the entities that own our real estate assets until immediately prior to the Spin-Off, the historical financial statements that are included in this Annual Report are those of Ensign Properties or, in the case of financial statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2014, include the historical results of Ensign Properties prior to June 1, 2014, the effective date of the Spin-Off. Significant changes occurred in our cost structure, financing and business operations as a result of our operation as a stand-alone company and the entry into transactions with Ensign that have not existed historically, including the Ensign Master Leases. For additional information about the basis of presentation of our consolidated and combined financial data included in this Annual Report, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated and combined historical financial statements and accompanying notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The ownership by our chief executive officer, Gregory K. Stapley, and one of our directors, Christopher R. Christensen, of shares of Ensign common stock may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their former and current positions with Ensign, respectively, our chief executive officer, Gregory K. Stapley, and one of our directors, Christopher R. Christensen, own shares of Ensign common stock. Mr. Stapley and Mr. Christensen also own shares of our common stock. Their individual holdings of shares of our common stock and Ensign common stock may be significant compared to their respective total assets. These equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when they are faced with decisions that may not benefit or affect CareTrust and Ensign in the same manner. Christopher R. Christensen, one of our directors, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of his position at Ensign. Christopher R. Christensen, one of our directors, continues to serve as the chief executive officer of Ensign as well as a member of Ensign’s board of directors. As a result of Mr. Christensen’s service on CareTrust’s board of directors, transactions between Ensign and CareTrust in an amount in excess of $120,000 are subject to our policy regarding related party transactions, and require that Mr. Christensen recuse himself from consideration of such transactions. Although transactions pursuant to the agreements entered into prior to the Spin-Off, such as the Ensign Master Leases, are pre-approved under this policy, new transactions between Ensign and CareTrust, or material changes to these agreements, are subject to approval under the policy. However, circumstances may arise that are not subject to the policy in which Mr. Christensen will have or appear to have a potential conflict of 26 interest, such as when our or Ensign’s management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for us and Ensign. The Spin-Off could give rise to disputes or other unfavorable effects, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. The Spin-Off may lead to increased operating and other expenses, of both a nonrecurring and a recurring nature, and to changes to certain operations, which expenses or changes could arise pursuant to arrangements made between Ensign and us or could trigger contractual rights of, and obligations to, third parties. Disputes with third parties could also arise out of these transactions, and we could experience unfavorable reactions to the Spin-Off from employees, lenders, ratings agencies, regulators or other interested parties. These increased expenses, changes to operations, disputes with third parties, or other effects could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, disputes with Ensign could arise in connection with any of the Ensign Master Leases, the Opportunities Agreement, the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement or other agreements. Our potential indemnification liabilities pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement could materially and adversely affect us. The Separation and Distribution Agreement between us and Ensign includes, among other things, provisions governing the relationship between us and Ensign after the Spin-Off. Among other things, the Separation and Distribution Agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to or arising out of our business. If we are required to indemnify Ensign under the circumstances set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with the Spin-Off, Ensign agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Ensign’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and other agreements we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, Ensign agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Ensign agreed to retain pursuant to these agreements, and there can be no assurance that Ensign will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations under these agreements. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Ensign any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from Ensign. The Spin-Off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. The Spin-Off and related transactions, including the special dividend paid on December 10, 2014 (the “Special Dividend”), are subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Under U.S. federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which vary from state to state, the Spin-Off or any of the related transactions could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if Ensign (a) distributed property with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (b) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for such distribution, and one of the following is also true at the time thereof: (1) Ensign was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the Spin-Off or any related transaction, (2) the Spin-Off or any related transaction left Ensign with an unreasonably small amount of capital or assets to carry on the business, or (3) Ensign intended to, or believed that, it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature. 27 As a general matter, value is given under U.S. law for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or a valid antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A debtor will generally not be considered to have received value under U.S. law in connection with a distribution to its stockholders. We cannot be certain as to the standards a U.S. court would use to determine whether or not Ensign was insolvent at the relevant time. In general, however, a U.S. court would deem an entity insolvent if: (1) the sum of its debts, including contingent and unliquidated liabilities, was greater than the value of its assets, at a fair valuation; (2) the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or (3) it could not pay its debts as they became due. If a U.S. court were to find that the Spin-Off was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, a court could void the Spin-Off, require stockholders to return to Ensign some or all of the shares of common stock distributed in the Spin-Off or require stockholders to pay as money damages an equivalent of the value of the shares of common stock at the time of the Spin-Off. If a U.S. court were to find that the Special Dividend was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, a court could void the Special Dividend, require stockholders to return to us some or all of the Special Dividend or require stockholders to pay as money damages an equivalent of the value of the Special Dividend. Moreover, stockholders could be required to return any dividends previously paid by us. With respect to any transfers from Ensign to us, if any such transfer was found to be a fraudulent transfer, a court could void the transaction or Ensign could be awarded monetary damages for the difference between the consideration received by Ensign and the fair market value of the transferred property at the time of the Spin-Off. We are subject to certain continuing operational obligations pursuant to Ensign’s 2013 Corporate Integrity Agreement. As part of compliance with various requirements of federal and private healthcare programs, Ensign and its subsidiaries are required to maintain a corporate compliance program pursuant to a corporate integrity agreement that Ensign entered into in October 2013 with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Although we are no longer a subsidiary of Ensign, we are subject to certain continuing operational obligations as part of Ensign’s compliance program pursuant to the CIA, including certain training in Medicare and Medicaid laws for our employees. Failure to timely comply with the applicable terms of the CIA could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT If we do not qualify to be taxed as a REIT, or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or service our indebtedness. We currently operate, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that will allow us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which we currently expect to occur commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. We received an opinion of our counsel with respect to our qualification as a REIT in connection with the Spin-Off. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of advisors are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of our counsel represents only the view of our counsel based on its review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. The opinion is expressed as of the date issued. Our counsel has no obligation to advise us or the holders of any of our securities of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of our counsel and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other 28 requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by our counsel. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. If we were to fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify to be taxed as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”). Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to our investors and us of such qualification. We could fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT if income we receive from our tenants is not treated as qualifying income. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are instead treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will likely fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we or a beneficial or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock beneficially or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of stock. CareTrust’s charter provides for restrictions on ownership and transfer of CareTrust’s shares of stock, including restrictions on such ownership or transfer that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from our tenants to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of REIT qualification requirements. 29 Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable by U.S. corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT (assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied) so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. Our funds from operations are generated primarily by rents paid under the Ensign Master Leases. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid being subject to corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, we may hold some of our assets or conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a “TRS”) or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to U.S. federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations. In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and “real estate assets” (as defined in the Code). The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than 30 government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify to be taxed as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the TRS may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the TRS. Even if we qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gains in our assets held before electing to be treated as a REIT. Following our REIT election, we will own appreciated assets that were held by a C corporation and were acquired by us in a transaction in which the adjusted tax basis of the assets in our hands was determined by reference to the adjusted basis of the assets in the hands of the C corporation. If we dispose of any such appreciated assets during the ten-year period following our qualification as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rates on any gain from such assets to the extent of the excess of the fair market value of the assets on the date that we became a REIT over the adjusted tax basis of such assets on such date, which are referred to as built-in gains. We would be subject to this tax liability even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and our distribution requirement. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. We may choose not to sell in a taxable transaction appreciated assets we might otherwise sell during the ten-year period in which the built-in gain tax applies in order to avoid the built-in gain tax. However, there can be no assurances that such a taxable transaction will not occur. If we sell such assets in a taxable transaction, the amount of corporate tax that we will pay will vary depending on the actual amount of net built-in gain or loss present in those assets as of the time we became a REIT. The amount of tax could be significant. Uncertainties relating to CareTrust’s estimate of its “earnings and profits” attributable to C-corporation taxable years may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow. In order to qualify as a REIT, a REIT cannot have at the end of any REIT taxable year any undistributed earnings and profits (“E&P”) that are attributable to a C-corporation taxable year. A REIT that has non-REIT 31 accumulated earnings and profits has until the close of its first full tax year as a REIT to distribute such earnings and profits. Failure to meet this requirement would result in CareTrust’s disqualification as a REIT. In connection with the Company’s intention to qualify as a real estate investment trust, on October 17, 2014, the Company’s board of directors declared the Special Dividend to distribute the amount of accumulated E&P allocated to the Company as a result of the Spin-Off. The amount of the Special Dividend was $132.0 million, or approximately $5.88 per common share. It was paid on December 10, 2014, to stockholders of record as of October 31, 2014, in a combination of both cash and stock. The cash portion totaled $33.0 million and the stock portion totaled $99.0 million. The Company issued 8,974,249 shares of common stock in connection with the stock portion of the Special Dividend. The determination of non-REIT earnings and profits is complicated and depends upon facts with respect to which CareTrust may have had less than complete information or the application of the law governing earnings and profits, which is subject to differing interpretations, or both. Consequently, there are substantial uncertainties relating to the estimate of CareTrust’s non-REIT earnings and profits, and we cannot be assured that the earnings and profits distribution requirement has been met. These uncertainties include the possibility that the IRS could upon audit, as discussed above, increase the taxable income of CareTrust, which would increase the non-REIT earnings and profits of CareTrust. There can be no assurances that we have satisfied the requirement. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We have substantial indebtedness and we have the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $358.2 million of indebtedness, consisting of $260.0 million representing our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “Notes”) and approximately $98.2 million of secured mortgage indebtedness to third parties. We also had $84.2 million available for borrowing under the Credit Facility (given the borrowing base requirements of the Credit Facility). Our high level of indebtedness may have the following important consequences to us. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our cash flow available to fund working capital, dividends, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • require us to maintain certain debt coverage and other financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including the Notes and borrowings under the Credit Facility; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; • expose us to increases in interest rates for our variable rate debt; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints; • limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity on the same or more favorable terms or at all; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness; • increase our risk of property losses as the result of foreclosure actions initiated by lenders under our secured debt obligations; • require us to dispose of one or more of our properties at disadvantageous prices in order to service our indebtedness or to raise funds to pay such indebtedness at maturity; and 32 • result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the Notes or our other debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing the Notes, the Credit Facility or our other debt instruments, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt. In addition, the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt. If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our future financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under the Credit Facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur additional debt, including secured debt, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We rely on our subsidiaries for our operating funds. We conduct our operations through subsidiaries and depend on our subsidiaries for the funds necessary to operate and repay our debt obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to transfer funds to us. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could be restricted by the terms of subsequent financings. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our activities and could adversely affect our business. Our debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Notes and the Credit Facility, contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including, as applicable: • incurring or guaranteeing additional secured and unsecured debt; • creating liens on our assets; • paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock; • making investments or other restricted payments; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • issuing stock of or interests in subsidiaries; • engaging in non-healthcare related business activities; • creating restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us; 33 • selling assets; • effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets; • making acquisitions; and • amending certain material agreements, including material leases and debt agreements. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, the Credit Facility requires us to comply with financial maintenance covenants to be tested quarterly, consisting of a maximum debt to asset value ratio, a maximum secured debt to asset value ratio, a maximum secured recourse debt to asset value ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum net worth. We are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness under the indenture. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders or amend the covenants. The Credit Facility is secured by certain of our properties, and the amount available to be drawn under the Credit Facility is based on the borrowing base values attributed to such mortgaged properties. Our ability to increase the amount available to be drawn under the Credit Facility by adding additional properties to the borrowing base is subject to our obligation under the indenture to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. The Credit Facility also allows for the collateral agent, on behalf of the lenders thereunder, to conduct periodic appraisals of our owned properties that secure such facility, and if the appraised values were to decline in the future, availability under such facility may be decreased unless additional properties are mortgaged to secure such facility. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming due and payable, either automatically or after an election to accelerate by the required percentage of the holders of such indebtedness. This, in turn, could cause our other debt, including the Notes and the Credit Facility, to become due and payable as a result of cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt and permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets, if any, that secure this debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company. In order for us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first taxable year as a REIT. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year (other than our first taxable year as a REIT). Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter also provides that, unless exempted by the board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for shares of our stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. The acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own 34 constructively in excess of 9.8% in value of our outstanding stock, and thus violate our charter’s ownership limit. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. In addition, our charter provides that (i) no person shall beneficially or constructively own shares of stock to the extent such beneficial or constructive ownership of stock would result in us failing to qualify as a “domestically controlled qualified investment entity” within the meaning of Section 897(h) of the Code, and (ii) no person shall beneficially or constructively own shares of stock to the extent such beneficial or constructive ownership would cause us to own, beneficially or constructively, more than a 9.9% interest (as set forth in Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code) in a tenant of our real property. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the transfer being automatically void. Maryland law and provisions in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. Our charter and bylaws, among other things, (1) contain transfer and ownership restrictions on the percentage by number and value of outstanding shares of our stock that may be owned or acquired by any stockholder; (2) provide that stockholders are not allowed to act by non-unanimous written consent; (3) permit the board of directors, without further action of the stockholders, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; (4) permit the board of directors to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares; (5) permit only the board of directors to amend the bylaws; (6) establish certain advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals, and provide procedures for the nomination of candidates for our board of directors; (7) provide that special meetings of stockholders may only be called by the Company or upon written request of stockholders entitled to be at the meeting; (8) provide that a director may only be removed by stockholders for cause and upon the vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock; (9) provide for supermajority approval requirements for amending or repealing certain provisions in our charter; and (10) provide for a classified board of directors of three separate classes with staggered terms. In addition, specific anti-takeover provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) could make it more difficult for a third party to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 35 The market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • a shift in our investor base; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • our ability to obtain financing as needed; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant investments, acquisitions or dispositions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after the Spin-Off; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating performance and stock price of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are an emerging growth company, and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies. As an emerging growth company, we are not required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor’s attestation report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) comply with any new rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise, (4) comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, (5) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements, or (6) hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Accordingly, the information that we provide stockholders in our filings with the SEC may be different than what is available with respect to other public companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile and adversely affected. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We 36 have elected to take advantage of this extended transition period. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates for such new or revised standards. We may elect to comply with public company effective dates at any time, and such election would be irrevocable pursuant to Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (2) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act or any successor statute, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period, and (4) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which require significant resources and management oversight. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial data on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial data, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us by, for example, leading to a decline in the market price for our common stock and impairing our ability to raise capital. As an emerging growth company, we are excluded from Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which otherwise would require our auditors to formally attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or, once we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” our independent registered public accounting firm cannot provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, the market price of our common stock could decline. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We expect to make quarterly dividend payments in cash in an amount equal to approximately 80% of our Funds Available for Distribution (as defined in Item 6 of this report), but in no event will the annual dividend be less than 90% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. Our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in annual report. Dividends are authorized by our board of directors and declared by us based upon a number of factors, including actual results of operations, restrictions under Maryland law or applicable debt covenants, our financial condition, our taxable income, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, our operating expenses and other factors our directors deem relevant. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash dividends or year-to-year increases in cash dividends in the future. 37 Furthermore, while we are required to pay dividends in order to maintain our REIT status (as described above under “Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT — REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan”), we may elect not to maintain our REIT status, in which case we would no longer be required to pay such dividends. Moreover, even if we do elect to maintain our REIT status, after completing various procedural steps, we may elect to comply with the applicable distribution requirements by distributing, under certain circumstances, a portion of the required amount in the form of shares of our common stock in lieu of cash. If we elect not to maintain our REIT status or to satisfy any required distributions in shares of common stock in lieu of cash, such action could negatively affect our business and financial condition as well as the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that we will pay any dividends on shares of our common stock in the future. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. While we have no specific plan to issue preferred stock, our charter authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, privileges, preferences, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, terms of redemption and relative participation, optional or other rights, if any, of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. ERISA may restrict investments by plans in our common stock. A plan fiduciary considering an investment in our common stock should consider, among other things, whether such an investment is consistent with the fiduciary obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), including whether such investment might constitute or give rise to a prohibited transaction under ERISA, the Code or any substantially similar federal, state or local law and, if so, whether an exemption from such prohibited transaction rules is available. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 