Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions, particularly in the United States, affect our industry, demand for our products, and our business and results of operations. General economic conditions continue to be challenging as the economy recovers from the effects of the financial crisis that led to the last recession in the United States. Demand for new performance sport boats has been significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, low consumer confidence and high unemployment and increased market volatility worldwide, especially in the United States. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and to defer or avoid expenditures for discretionary items, such as our products. Sales of our products are highly sensitive to personal discretionary spending levels, and our success depends on general economic conditions and overall 21Table of Contentsconsumer confidence and personal income levels. Any deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may reduce our sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the duration or strength of an economic recovery, either in the United States or in the specific markets where we sell our products. Consumers often finance purchases of our products. Although consumer credit markets have improved, consumer credit market conditions continue to influence demand, especially for boats, and may continue to do so. There continue to be fewer lenders, tighter underwriting and loan approval criteria and greater down payment requirements than in the past. If credit conditions worsen, and adversely affect the ability of consumers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a decrease in the sales of our products. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: •seasonal consumer demand for our products; •discretionary spending habits; •changes in pricing in, or the availability of supply in, the used powerboat market; •variations in the timing and volume of our sales; •the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales; •sales promotions by us and our competitors; •changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; •consumer preferences and competition for consumers’ leisure time; •impact of unfavorable weather conditions; •changes in the cost or availability of our labor; and •increased fuel prices. As a result, our results of operations may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future. We depend on our network of independent dealers, face increasing competition for dealers and have little control over their activities. Substantially all of our sales are derived from our network of independent dealers. We have agreements with the dealers in our network that typically provide for one-year terms, although some agreements have a term of up to three years. For fiscal years 2014 and 2013, our top ten dealers accounted for 34.1% and 36.1%, respectively, of our total units sold. The loss of a significant number of these dealers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The number of dealers supporting our products and the quality of their marketing and servicing efforts are essential to our ability to generate sales. Competition for dealers among performance sport boat manufacturers continues to increase based on the quality, price, value and availability of the manufacturer’s products, the manufacturer’s attention to customer service and the marketing support that the manufacturer provides to the dealers. We face intense competition from other performance sport boat manufacturers in attracting and retaining dealers, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain relationships with qualified and successful dealers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationship with our dealers or our market share position. A substantial deterioration in the number of dealers or quality of our network of dealers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, upon the financial health of our dealers and their continued access to financing. Because we sell nearly all of our products through dealers, their financial health is critical to our success. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if the financial health of the dealers that sell our products suffers. Their financial health may suffer for a variety of reasons, including a downturn in general economic 22Table of Contentsconditions, rising interest rates, higher rents, increased labor costs and taxes, compliance with regulations and personal financial issues. In addition, our dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchases of our products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These sources of financing are vital to our ability to sell products through our distribution network. Access to floor plan financing generally facilitates our dealers’ ability to purchase boats from us, and their financed purchases reduce our working capital requirements. If floor plan financing were not available to our dealers, our sales and our working capital levels would be adversely affected. The availability and terms of financing offered by our dealers’ floor plan financing providers will continue to be influenced by: •their ability to access certain capital markets and to fund their operations in a cost-effective manner; •the performance of their overall credit portfolios; •their willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to dealers; and •the overall creditworthiness of those dealers. We may be required to repurchase inventory of certain dealers. Many of our dealers have floor plan financing arrangements with third-party finance companies that enable the dealers to purchase our products. In connection with these agreements, we may have an obligation to repurchase our products from a finance company under certain circumstances, and we may not have any control over the timing or amount of any repurchase obligation nor have access to capital on terms acceptable to us to satisfy any repurchase obligation. This obligation is triggered if a dealer defaults on its debt obligations to a finance company, the finance company repossesses the boat and the boat is returned to us. Our obligation to repurchase a repossessed boat for the unpaid balance of our original invoice price for the boat is subject to reduction or limitation based on the age and condition of the boat at the time of repurchase, and in certain cases by an aggregate cap on repurchase obligations associated with a particular floor financing program. If we were obligated to repurchase a significant number of units under any repurchase agreement, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage our manufacturing levels while still addressing the seasonal retail pattern for our products, our business and margins may suffer. The seasonality of retail demand for our products, together with our goal of balancing production throughout the year, requires us to manage our manufacturing and allocate our products to our dealer network to address anticipated retail demand. Our dealers must manage seasonal changes in consumer demand and inventory. If our dealers reduce their inventories in response to weakness in retail demand, we could be required to reduce our production, resulting in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in our manufacturing and, therefore, lower margins. As a result, we must balance the economies of level production with the seasonal retail sales pattern experienced by our dealers. Failure to adjust manufacturing levels adequately may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a large fixed cost base that will affect our profitability if our sales decrease. The fixed cost levels of operating a powerboat manufacturer can put pressure on profit margins when sales and production decline. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over a sufficiently large number of products sold and shipped, and if we make a decision to reduce our rate of production, gross or net margins could be negatively affected. Consequently, decreased demand or the need to reduce production can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our industry is characterized by intense competition, which affects our sales and profits. The performance sport boat category, and the powerboat industry as a whole, is highly competitive for consumers and dealers. We also compete against consumer demand for used boats. Competition affects our ability to succeed in both the markets we currently serve and new markets that we may enter in the future. Competition is based primarily on brand name, price, product selection and product performance. We compete with several large manufacturers that may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and who are represented by dealers in the markets in which we now operate and into which we plan to expand. We also compete with a variety of small, independent manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will not face greater competition from existing large or small manufacturers or that we will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. Our failure to compete effectively with our current and future competitors would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23Table of ContentsOur sales may be adversely impacted by increased consumer preference for used boats or the supply of new boats by competitors in excess of demand. During the economic downturn, we observed a shift in consumer demand toward purchasing more used boats, primarily because prices for used boats are typically lower than retail prices for new boats. If this were to continue or occur again, it could have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for our new boats. Also, while we have taken steps designed to balance production volumes for our boats with demand, our competitors could choose to reduce the price of their products, which could have the effect of reducing demand for our new boats. Reduced demand for new boats could lead to reduced sales by us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the successful introduction of new products. Market acceptance of our products depends on our technological innovation and our ability to implement technology in our boats. Our sales and profitability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable or innovative new products. Our failure to introduce new technologies and product offerings that our markets desire could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have been able to achieve higher margins in part as a result of the introduction of new features or enhancements to our existing boat models. If we fail to introduce new features or those we introduce, such as the Wakesetter 24 MXZ, fail to gain market acceptance, our margins may suffer. In addition, some of our direct competitors and indirect competitors may have significantly more resources to develop and patent new technologies. It is possible that our competitors will develop and patent equivalent or superior technologies and other products that compete with ours. They may assert these patents against us and we may be required to license these patents on unfavorable terms or cease using the technology covered by these patents, either of which would harm our competitive position and may materially adversely affect our business. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs and potential damages. We compete with a variety of other activities for consumers’ scarce leisure time. Our boats are used for recreational and sport purposes, and demand for our boats may be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers’ leisure time and by changes in consumer life style, usage pattern or taste. Similarly, an overall decrease in consumer leisure time may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase and enjoy our products. Our success depends upon the continued strength of our brands, Malibu and Axis, and the value of our brands and sales of our products could be diminished if we, the athletes who use our products or the sports and activities in which our products are used, are associated with negative publicity. We believe that our brands, Malibu and Axis, are significant contributors to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands are important to expanding our consumer and dealer base. Failure to continue to protect our brands may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity, including that resulting from severe injuries or death occurring in the sports and activities in which our products are used, could negatively affect our reputation and result in restrictions, recalls or bans on the use of our products. Further, actions taken by athletes associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes could also harm our brand image and adversely affect our financial condition. If the popularity of the sports and activities for which we design, manufacture and sell products were to decrease as a result of these risks or any negative publicity, sales of our products could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our net revenue, profitability and operating results. In addition, if we become exposed to additional claims and litigation relating to the use of our products, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including by generating potential negative publicity about our products, which could adversely impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to execute our manufacturing strategy successfully, which could cause the profitability of our products to suffer. Our manufacturing strategy is designed to improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. To implement this strategy, we must be successful in our continuous improvement efforts, which depend on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. Any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of our products and our ability to deliver desirable products to our consumers. 24Table of ContentsOur ability to meet our manufacturing workforce needs is crucial to our results of operations and future sales and profitability. We rely on the existence of an available hourly workforce to manufacture our boats. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current or future manufacturing needs at a reasonable cost, or at all. Although none of our employees is currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. Significant increases in manufacturing workforce costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and may be unable to obtain adequate raw materials and components. We depend on third-party suppliers to provide components and raw materials essential to the construction of our boats. Historically, we have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers, but have developed 90-day forecast models with our major suppliers to minimize disruptions in our supply chain. While we believe that our relationships with our current suppliers are sufficient to provide the materials necessary to meet present production demand, we cannot assure you that these relationships will continue or that the quantity or quality of materials available from these suppliers will be sufficient to meet our future needs, irrespective of whether we successfully implement our growth strategy. In particular, the availability and cost of engines used in the manufacture of our boats are critical. For fiscal years 2014 and 2013, we purchased approximately 90% and nearly 100%, respectively, of the engines for our boats from a single supplier. If we are required to replace this supplier or the supplier of any other key components or raw materials, it could cause a decrease in products available for sale or an increase in the cost of goods sold, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon key personnel and we may not be able to retain them nor to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees in the future. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management team and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified and skilled managerial, product development, manufacturing, marketing and other personnel. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management or other key personnel or the inability to hire or retained qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may attempt to grow our business through acquisitions or strategic alliances and new partnerships, which we may not be successful in completing or integrating. We may in the future explore acquisitions and strategic alliances, such as our potential acquisition of our Australian licensee, that will enable us to acquire complementary skills and capabilities, offer new products, expand our consumer base, enter new product categories or geographic markets and obtain other competitive advantages. We cannot assure you, however, that we will identify acquisition candidates or strategic partners that are suitable to our business, obtain financing on satisfactory terms, complete acquisitions or strategic alliances or successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve anticipated levels of sales or profitability, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including risks associated with unanticipated challenges, liabilities and contingencies, and diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products and may lead to costly litigation. We are currently, and may be in the future, party to lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time-consuming. We hold patents and trademarks relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or trademarks or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of enforceable patent or trademark protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, gain access to our trade secrets and know-how or diminish our brand through unauthorized use of our trademarks, all of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, others may initiate litigation or other proceedings to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may 25Table of Contentsincur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. Further, we may need to engage in future litigation to enforce intellectual property rights to protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are currently a party to a legal proceeding arising from intellectual property matters. We are a plaintiff in a Tennessee lawsuit alleging infringement by a competitor of our patent rights in certain wake surfing technology. We also were a defendant in a lawsuit alleging patent infringement and related claims in connection with windshields installed in our boats that we purchased from a third-party supplier. We resolved this lawsuit with the plaintiffs in September 2014 and have agreed to pay $20.0 million in cash to the plaintiffs upon the entry into a definitive settlement agreement or such later date as the parties agree. We accrued a one-time charge of $20.0 million for the settlement in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. For more information, see Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Although we do not believe that the remaining unresolved lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot predict its outcome, and an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Regardless of the outcome of such litigation or similar litigation in the future, it could significantly increase our costs and divert management’s attention from operation of our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Product liability, warranty and recall claims may materially affect our financial condition and damage our reputation. We are engaged in a business that exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims in the event our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, personal injury or death. Although we maintain product and general liability insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all such potential claims. We may experience legal claims in excess of our insurance coverage or claims that are not covered by insurance, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determination of material product liability and warranty claims made against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and harm our reputation. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or alleged defect relates to safety. These and other claims we face could be costly to us and require substantial management attention. Our international markets require significant management attention, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of sales and profitability. We currently sell our products throughout the world. Our total sales outside North America (including licensing royalties from our Australian licensee) were less than 10% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2014 and fiscal year 2013. International markets have, and will continue to be, a focus for sales growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time we intend for international sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total revenue. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions, could adversely affect such growth. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention. Some of the countries in which we market and our distributors or licensee sell our products are to some degree subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to: •increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries; •unfamiliarity with local demographics, consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns; •the imposition of additional foreign governmental controls or regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health and safety matters and regulations and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA; •new or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; •the imposition of increases in costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; •the relative strength of the U.S. dollar compared to local currency, making our products less price-competitive relative to products manufactured outside of the United States; 26Table of Contents•laws and business practices favoring local companies; •longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and •difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of total sales, or one or more of the foregoing factors may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. An increase in energy costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at our manufacturing facility and in the expense of shipping products to our dealers. In addition, increases in energy costs may adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials, such as resins and foams, that are used in our products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on demand for our boats, as they increase the cost of ownership and operation. We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or the OFAC. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, persons and entities. In addition, because we act through dealers and distributors, we face the risk that our dealers, distributors or consumers might further distribute our products to a sanctioned person or entity, or an ultimate end-user in a sanctioned country, which might subject us to an investigation concerning compliance with OFAC or other sanctions regulations. Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We cannot assure you that all of our local, strategic or joint partners will comply with these laws and regulations, in which case we could be held liable for actions taken inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international expansion, including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA or OFAC violations in the future. If we are unable to comply with environmental and other regulatory requirements, our business may be exposed to material liability or fines. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, including product safety, environmental and health and safety requirements, under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes, ordinances and regulations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant fines or penalties or could materially increase the cost of operations. In addition, legal requirements are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could also increase our costs or create liabilities where none exists today. As with boat construction in general, our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. The failure to manage or dispose of such hazardous substances and wastes properly could expose us to material liability or fines. Also, the components to our boats may become subject to more stringent environmental regulations. For example, boat engines may be subject to more stringent emissions standards, which could increase the cost of our engines and our products, which, in turn, may reduce consumer demand for our products. 27Table of ContentsA natural disaster or other disruption at our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the continuous operation of manufacturing facilities in Tennessee and California. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to our facilities due to fire, flood, earthquake or any other unforeseen circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of any disruption at our manufacturing facilities may have an adverse effect on our productivity and profitability, during and after the period of the disruption. These disruptions may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. Although we maintain property, casualty and business interruption insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential natural disasters or other disruptions to our manufacturing facilities. Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws or enforcement could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Changes in domestic and international tax legislation could expose us to additional tax liability. Although we monitor changes in tax laws and work to mitigate the impact of proposed changes, such changes may negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any increase in individual income tax rates, such as those implemented at the beginning of 2013, would negatively affect our potential consumers’ discretionary income and could decrease the demand for our products. Our credit facilities contain covenants which may limit our operating flexibility; failure to comply with covenants may restrict our access to these. In the past, we have relied upon our existing credit facilities to provide us with adequate liquidity to operate our business. The availability of borrowing amounts under our credit facilities are dependent upon compliance with the debt covenants set forth in our credit agreement. Violation of those covenants, whether as a result of operating losses or otherwise, could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facilities. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital and other needs and we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our operations or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in ensuring our availability to amounts under our credit facilities or in connection with raising additional capital and that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs or on terms as favorable as have historically been available to us. If we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our credit facilities or raise additional capital when needed, our business and operations will be materially and adversely affected. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A Common Stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Starups Act, or the JOBS Act. We have taken, and for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take, advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things: •exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; •reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; •exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and •exemption from any public rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering (June 30, 2019) or until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more, (2) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt or (3) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (a) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (b) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter. 28Table of ContentsUnder the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are also permitted to elect to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards until companies that are not subject to periodic reporting obligations are required to comply, if such accounting standards apply to non-reporting companies. We have made an irrevocable decision to opt out of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A Common Stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be less active trading market for our Class A Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of being a new public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We recently became a public company on January 30, 2014. As a public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements, in order to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC, or NASDAQ. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives and our legal and accounting compliance costs will increase. It is likely that we will need to hire additional staff in the areas of investor relations, legal and accounting as we continue to operate as a public company. We also believe these new rules and regulations make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in the future or the timing of such costs. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as a public company, we will be required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As an emerging growth company, we will not need to comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 for several years. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline. When the available exemptions under the JOBS Act cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.Risks Related to Our Organizational StructureOur only material asset is our interest in the LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from the LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends. Malibu Boats, Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than our ownership of LLC Units. Malibu Boats, Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the LLC to make distributions to its unit holders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of its financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. For example, our credit agreement generally prohibits the LLC, Malibu Boats, LLC and Malibu Domestic International Sales Corp. from paying dividends or making distributions. Our credit agreement permits, however, distributions based on a member’s allocated taxable income, distributions to fund payments that are required under the tax receivable agreement, payments pursuant to stock option and other benefit plans up to $2 million in any fiscal year, dividends and distributions within the loan parties and dividends payable solely in interests of classes of securities. In addition, the LLC may make dividends and distributions of up to $4,000,000 in any fiscal year, subject to compliance with other financial covenants. 29Table of ContentsWe will be required to pay the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) for certain tax benefits pursuant to our tax receivable agreement with them, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. Malibu Boats, Inc. used a portion of the proceeds from the IPO and follow-on offering to purchase LLC Units from the LLC members. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with the pre-IPO owners that provides for the payment by us to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) of 85% of the tax benefits, if any, that we are deemed to realize as a result of (1) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and (2) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. These payment obligations are our obligations and not of the LLC. For purposes of the agreement, the benefit deemed realized by us will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of the LLC as a result of the purchases or exchanges, and had we not entered into the tax receivable agreement. Estimating the amount of payments that may be made under the tax receivable agreement is by its nature imprecise, insofar as the calculation of amounts payable depends on a variety of factors. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including: •the timing of purchases or exchanges-for instance, the increase in any tax deductions will vary depending on the fair value, which may fluctuate over time, of the depreciable or amortizable assets of the LLC at the time of each purchase or exchange; •the price of shares of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the purchase or exchange-the increase in any tax deductions, as well as the tax basis increase in other assets, of the LLC is directly related to the price of shares of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the purchase or exchange; •the extent to which such purchases or exchanges are taxable-if an exchange or purchase is not taxable for any reason, increased deductions will not be available; and •the amount and timing of our income-the corporate taxpayer will be required to pay 85% of the deemed benefits as and when deemed realized. If we do not have taxable income, we generally will not be required (absent a change of control or other circumstances requiring an early termination payment) to make payments under the tax receivable agreement for that taxable year because no benefit will have been realized. However, any tax benefits that do not result in realized benefits in a given tax year will likely generate tax attributes that may be utilized to generate benefits in previous or future tax years. The utilization of such tax attributes will result in payments under the tax receivable agreement. For more information see "Item 1. Business - History and Formation Transactions" and Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement may be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the agreement, we expect that future payments under the tax receivable agreement relating to the purchases by Malibu Boats, Inc. of LLC Units as part of the Recapitalization, the IPO and the follow-on offering will be approximately $47.7 million over the next 15 years. Future payments to the pre-IPO owners (or their permitted assignees) in respect of subsequent exchanges or purchases would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates and the actual payments could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if distributions to us by the LLC are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after we have paid taxes. For example, we may have an obligation to make tax receivable agreement payments for a certain amount while receiving distributions from the LLC in a lesser amount, which would negatively affect our liquidity. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon the pre-IPO owners’ (or any permitted assignees’) continued ownership of us. We are required to make a good faith effort to ensure that we have sufficient cash available to make any required payments under the tax receivable agreement. The limited liability company agreement of the LLC requires the LLC to make “tax distributions” which, in the ordinary course, will be sufficient to pay our actual tax liability and to fund required payments under the tax receivable agreement. If for any reason the LLC is not able to make a tax distribution in an amount that is sufficient to make any required payment under the tax receivable agreement or we otherwise lack sufficient funds, interest would accrue on any unpaid amounts at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 500 basis points until they are paid. 30Table of ContentsIn certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement provides that, in the event that we exercise our right to early termination of the tax receivable agreement, or in the event of a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, the tax receivable agreement will terminate, and we will be required to make a lump-sum payment equal to the present value of all forecasted future payments that would have otherwise been made under the tax receivable agreement, which lump-sum payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. The change in control payment and termination payments to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) could be substantial and could exceed the actual tax benefits that we receive as a result of acquiring the LLC Units because the amounts of such payments would be calculated assuming that we would have been able to use the potential tax benefits each year for the remainder of the amortization periods applicable to the basis increases, and that tax rates applicable to us would be the same as they were in the year of the termination. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, to challenge a tax basis increase, Malibu Boats, Inc. will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the benefits that Malibu Boats, Inc. actually realizes in respect of (1) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and (2) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. We have entered into a voting agreement with Black Canyon Management LLC, which provides it with rights to nominate a number of designees to our board of directors. In connection with our Recapitalization and IPO, we entered into a voting agreement with certain affiliates. Under the voting agreement, Black Canyon Management LLC is entitled to nominate to our board of directors a number of designees equal to (1) 20% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors at such time, so long as specified entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC (and their permitted transferees) and Messrs. Springer, Wilson and Anderson together beneficially own 15% or more of the voting power of the shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, and (2) 10% of the total number of directors comprising the board of directors at such time, so long as specified entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC (and their permitted transferees) and Messrs. Springer, Wilson and Anderson together beneficially own more than 5% but less than 15% of the voting power of the shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. In addition, Black Canyon Management LLC has the right to remove and replace its director-designees at any time and for any reason and to nominate any individuals to fill any such vacancies. Messrs. Springer, Wilson and Anderson will be required to vote any of their Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock in favor of the director or directors nominated by Black Canyon Management LLC. As of September 24, 2014, the specified entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC, their permitted transferees, and Messrs. Springer, Wilson and Anderson own (as calculated pursuant to the voting agreement) approximately 21.6% of the voting power of the shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, voting together as a single class. It is possible that the interests of Black Canyon Management LLC may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Affiliates of Black Canyon Capital LLC have certain consent rights that could limit the ability of stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a sale of Malibu Boats, Inc. The amended and restated limited liability company agreement of the LLC provides that Malibu Boats, Inc., as managing member of the LLC, has the right to require all members to exchange their LLC Units for Class A Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the exchange agreement, subject to the consent of Black Canyon Management LLC and the holders of a majority of outstanding LLC Units other than those held by Malibu Boats, Inc. This consent right could impede the ability of Malibu Boats, Inc. to take certain actions that might benefit its stockholders, including a sale of Malibu Boats, Inc. The interests of Black Canyon Management LLC may conflict with or differ from our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. The consent of Black Canyon Management LLC will be required for certain amendments to the limited liability company agreement of the LLC. 31Table of ContentsThe limited liability company agreement of the LLC provides that, for so long as specified entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC and their permitted transferees own an amount of LLC Units equal to at least 5% of the LLC Units that were outstanding immediately following our IPO, after giving effect to the use of proceeds therefrom, or 568,687 LLC Units, the consent of Black Canyon Management LLC will be required for any amendment to the limited liability company agreement that would: •reduce the rights of a holder of LLC Units to receive tax distributions, except on a pro rata basis with other holders of LLC Units; •preclude or limit the rights of any member to exercise its rights under the exchange agreement; •require any member to make a capital contribution; •materially increase the obligations of any member under the limited liability company agreement; or •result in the LLC being treated as a corporation for tax purposes. Specified entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC and their permitted transferees own (as calculated pursuant to the LLC Agreement) 2,858,094 LLC Units as of September 24, 2014. The interests of the entities affiliated with Black Canyon Management LLC may conflict with or differ from our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Risks Related to Our Class A Common StockOur stock price may be volatile and stockholders may be unable to sell shares at or above the price at which they purchased them. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: •general economic, market and industry conditions; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations; •addition or loss of consumers or dealers; •actual or anticipated changes in our rate of growth relative to our competitors; •additions or departures of key personnel; •failure to introduce new products, or for those products to achieve market acceptance; •disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •changes in applicable laws or regulations; •issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; •sales of our Class A Common Stock by us or our stockholders; •share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; and •the expiration of contractual lock-up agreements with our executive officers, directors and stockholders. Further, the stock markets may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can affect the market prices of equity securities. These fluctuations can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, could harm the market price of our Class A Common Stock. 32Table of ContentsIn the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. Further, the stock markets may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can affect the market prices of equity securities. These fluctuations can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, could harm the market price of our Class A Common Stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock will depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish research or reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could cause our share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our governing documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include, without limitation: •a classified board structure; •a requirement that stockholders must provide advance notice to propose nominations or have other business considered at a meeting of stockholders; •supermajority stockholder approval to amend our bylaws or certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation; and •authorization of blank check preferred stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding Class A Common Stock, from engaging in certain business combinations without the approval of substantially all of our stockholders for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Class A Common Stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock and, consequently, the only opportunity for stockholders to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare or pay dividends on shares of our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Further, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash distributions from the LLC and the LLC also relies on its subsidiaries for receipt of cash for distributions. This may further restrict our ability to pay dividends as a result of the laws of the jurisdiction of organization of the LLC and its subsidiaries, agreements of the LLC or its subsidiaries or covenants under our, the LLC’s or its subsidiaries’ existing or future indebtedness. For example, our credit agreement generally prohibits the LLC, Malibu Boats, LLC and Malibu Domestic International Sales Corp. from paying dividends or making distributions. Our credit agreement permits, however, distributions based on a member’s allocated taxable income, distributions to fund payments that are required under the tax receivable agreement, payments pursuant to stock option and other benefit plans, dividends and distributions within the loan parties and dividends payable solely in interests of classes of securities. In addition, the LLC may make dividends and distributions of up to $4,000,000 in any fiscal year, subject to 33Table of Contentscompliance with other financial covenants. Consequently, for stockholders the only opportunity to achieve a return on the shares they purchase will be if the market price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates and they sell their shares at a profit.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.