Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to ERI's Capital Structure and Equity Ownership We have significant indebtedness As a result of our existing credit facilities and outstanding secured notes, we have a significant amount of indebtedness. The Company's consolidated outstanding aggregate principal amount of notes as of December 31, 2014 was $728.7 million. MTR Gaming's $560.7 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of second lien notes is secured by substantially all assets of MTR Gaming. Resorts' $168.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of senior notes are secured by substantially all assets of Resorts. This indebtedness may have important negative consequences for us, including: • limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its businesses and the markets in which we operates; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; • increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our ability to react to, changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, general corporate or other obligations; • subjecting us to a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and distributions, make acquisitions and dispositions, borrow additional funds, and make capital expenditures and other investments; • restrictions on making dividend payments and other payments by wholly-owned subsidiaries; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of its business because we must dedicate a significant portion of these funds to make principal and/or interest payments on its outstanding debt; • exposing us to interest rate risk due to the variable interest rate on borrowings under our credit facility; • causing our failure to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our current or future indebtedness, which could cause a default under such indebtedness and which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; and • affecting our ability to renew gaming and other licenses necessary to conduct our business. Our ability to make payments of the principal and interest on and refinance our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, our ability to generate cash flow and market conditions, each of which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may be unable to continue to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. In addition, because MTR and Resorts have separate debt facilities that limit their ability to distribute cash, we will be limited in our ability to move funds from one entity to another to finance debt obligations, capital expenditures or other liquidity needs. If MTR or Resorts is unable to generate such cash flow or contribute or distribute cash to finance the liquidity needs of ERI or each other, ERI, MTR or Resorts, as applicable, may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, undertaking additional borrowings or issuing additional debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. The failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in an event of default 18 Table of Contents which, if not cured or waived, could have a material negative effect on us. Our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets, the credit markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in increased financing costs or a default on our debt obligations. Our indentures contain, and future debt agreements may contain, covenants that could significantly restrict our operations The agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any of our future debt agreements might contain, numerous covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions might affect our ability to operate our business, might limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and might adversely affect the conduct of our current business, including by restricting our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and limiting our ability to engage in other business activities. These covenants will place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our operating subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens or other encumbrances; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments, including payments by Resorts and MTR to ERI and to each other; • agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; • prepay subordinated indebtedness; • make investments, loans or other guarantees; • sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. Our credit facilities also include certain financial and other covenants, including maintaining certain total leverage and earnings to fixed charge ratios as well as restrictions on capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. If we fail to comply with a financial covenant or other restriction contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, an event of default could occur. An event of default could result in acceleration of some or all of the applicable indebtedness and the inability to borrow additional funds. We do not have, and are not certain we would be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay any such indebtedness if it is accelerated. ERI is a holding company and will depend on its subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments ERI is structured as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. ERI's only significant asset is the capital stock or other equity interests of its operating subsidiaries. As a holding company, ERI conducts all of its business through its subsidiaries. Consequently, ERI's principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends, will be dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries. If ERI's subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments or distributions to it and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, ERI may not be able to pay dividends. The current indebtedness of Resorts and MTR Gaming restricts, and any future indebtedness of theirs will likely restrict, the ability of Resorts and MTR Gaming to make dividends or distributions to ERI. In addition, ERI's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. 19 Table of Contents Servicing debt and funding other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations and capital expenditures depends upon our ability to generate cash flow and secure financing in the future. Our ability to generate future cash flow depends, among other things, upon: • our future operating performance; • the demand for services Resorts, MTR and Silver Legacy provide; • general economic conditions; • competition; and • legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. Some of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our businesses will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as other capital expenditures, through cash flow, borrowings under our existing credit facilities and additional financings, our expansion, development, investment and renovation efforts will be jeopardized We intend to finance our current and future development, investment, renovation and expansion projects, as well as our other capital expenditures, primarily with cash flow from operations, and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, or our other capital expenditures, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing, delaying or abandoning planned development, investment, renovation and expansion projects as well as other capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our development, investment, renovation and expansion projects, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the agreements governing our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Recently, there were significant disruptions in the global capital markets that adversely impacted the ability of borrowers to access capital. Although the financial markets have seen recent signs of recovery and increased availability of capital, the financial markets remain volatile. To the extent that cash flow from operations are not sufficient to fund our development, investment, renovation and expansion projects, we would be required to seek additional financing, which may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. The operating agreement of Silver Legacy Joint Venture contains a buy-sell provision which, if exercised by either partner, could adversely affect us The operating agreement for the entity that owns the Silver Legacy contains a buy-sell provision pursuant to which either Resorts or the wholly owned subsidiary of MGM Resorts International that owns its 50% interest in the Silver Legacy Joint Venture may sell its membership interest or purchase the interest of the other member, in either case, at the price proposed by the offering member. If 20 Table of Contents either member should make such an offer, the operating agreement requires the other member to either sell its membership interest or purchase the membership interest of the offering member, in either case, at the price proposed by the offering member. An election by either member to exercise its buy-sell right, which would result in the buyout of one of the members, could adversely impact its operations, depending, among other things, on its ability to respond to an offer from the other member and the price at which any offer is made. MGM Resorts International has significantly greater resources than we have. If an offer by either member results in the purchase of its interest in the Silver Legacy Joint Venture, the sale of the interest could adversely affect, or result in the termination of, any existing arrangements or agreements Resorts may have with Silver Legacy or the other member, or otherwise adversely impact us. The market price of ERI's common stock could fluctuate significantly The U.S. securities markets in general have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The market price of ERI's common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of ERI's common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in, or have a material adverse effect on, the stock price or trading volume of ERI's common stock include: • general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the hotel and casino industries; • actual or expected variations in operating results; • differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • operations and stock performance of competitors; • accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; • significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by ERI or by competitors; • sales of ERI's common stock or other securities in the future, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • conditions and trends in the gaming and entertainment industries; • changes in the estimate of the future size and growth of our markets; and • changes in reserves for professional liability claims. We cannot assure you that the stock price of ERI common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to ERI's performance. If the market price of ERI common stock fluctuates significantly, ERI may become the subject of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. ERI has not yet determined its dividend policy and may not pay dividends ERI has not yet determined its dividend policy, but it does not currently expect to pay dividends on its common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of the ERI board of directors and will depend upon among other factors, ERI's earnings, cash requirements, financial condition, requirements to comply with the covenants under its debt instruments, including limitations on the ability of MTR and Eldorado to make distributions to ERI, legal considerations, and 21 Table of Contents other factors that the ERI board of directors deems relevant. If ERI does not pay dividends, then the return on an investment in its common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its stock price. There is no guarantee that ERI's common stock will appreciate in value or maintain its value. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the U.S. and global economies may negatively impact our access to financing During recent years, a confluence of many factors has contributed to diminished expectations for the U.S. economy and increased market volatility for publicly traded securities, including the common shares and notes issued by publicly owned companies. These factors include the availability and cost of credit, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment. These conditions have combined to create an unprecedented level of market volatility, which could negatively impact our ability to access capital and financing (including financing necessary to refinance our existing indebtedness), on terms and at prices acceptable to us, that we would otherwise need in connection with the operation of our businesses. Risk Factors Relating to our Operations Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy Consumer demand for casino hotel and racetrack properties such as ours is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the associated impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of declines in consumer confidence in the economy, including the recent housing, employment and credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, which have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our results of operations. Increases in gasoline prices, including increases prompted by global political and economic instabilities, can adversely affect the operations of Resorts and MTR because most of their patrons travel to their properties by car or on airlines that may pass on increases in fuel costs to passengers in the form of higher ticket prices. The recent global, national and regional economic downturn, including the housing crisis, credit crisis, lower consumer confidence, and other related factors which impact discretionary consumer spending and other economic activities that have direct effects on Resorts' and MTR Gaming's business, have resulted in a decline in the tourism industry that has adversely impacted their operations. We cannot be sure how long these factors will continue to impact our operations in the future or the extent of the impact. We face substantial competition in the hotel and casino industry and expect that such competition will continue The gaming industry is characterized by an increasingly high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American reservations and other forms of legalized gaming. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Certain states have legalized casino gaming and other states may legalize gaming in the future. Legalized casino gaming in these states and on Native American reservations near our markets or changes to gaming laws in states surrounding Nevada, Louisiana, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, or Ohio could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with gaming facilities in other jurisdictions with dockside gaming facilities, state sponsored lotteries, on-and-off track pari-mutuel wagering, card clubs, riverboat casinos and other 22 Table of Contents forms of legalized gambling. In addition, various forms of internet gaming have been approved in Nevada and New Jersey and legislation permitting internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. The expansion of internet gaming in Nevada and other jurisdictions could result in significant additional competition. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. Recently, there has been additional significant competition in our markets as a result of the expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. For example, casino gaming is currently prohibited in several jurisdictions from which the Shreveport/Bossier City market draws customers, primarily Texas. The Texas legislature has from time to time considered proposals to legalize gaming, and there can be no assurance that casino gaming will not be approved in Texas in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, since visitors from California comprise a significant portion of our customer base in Reno, we also compete with Native American gaming operations in California. Native American tribes are allowed to operate slot machines, lottery games and banking and percentage games on Native American lands. Although many existing Native American gaming facilities in northern California are modest compared to Eldorado Reno and Silver Legacy, a number of Native American tribes have established large-scale gaming facilities in California and some Native American tribes have announced that they are in the process of expanding, developing, or are considering establishing, large-scale hotel and gaming facilities in northern California. A new 320,000 square foot gaming facility located in Sonoma County, California opened on November 5, 2013. Additionally, a new 30,000 square foot casino and 400-room hotel in Bossier City across the Red River from Eldorado Shreveport opened in June 2013, which includes several restaurants and a 1,000-seat entertainment arena. In December 2014, a new luxury, land-based casino with 1,600 slot machines, 72 gaming tables, a poker room, and a 740-room hotel with a ballroom and spa, opened in Lake Charles, Louisiana approximately 200 miles south of Eldorado Shreveport, but closer to the Houston, Texas market. With respect to our MTR Gaming facilities, an additional license has been granted for a casino to be located in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, approximately 45 miles from Mountaineer and 90 miles from Presque Isle Downs, which would result in further competition for both of those properties. Further, gaming facilities in Ohio that have recently commenced operations, including the Horseshoe Casino Cleveland, Hollywood Casino Columbus, ThistleDown Racino, Northfield Park and Beulah Park, present significant competition for Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs. Increased competition may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our properties to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities. Because we are highly leveraged, after satisfying our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake these expenditures or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected. We may face integration difficulties and may be unable to integrate MTR Gaming's business into ERI's business successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger The Merger involved the combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies. MTR Gaming is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of ERI. We have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the companies' business practices and operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine our two businesses in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and other benefits anticipated to result from the Merger; 23 Table of Contents • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in: • the diversion of the attention of management; and • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our future results could suffer if we cannot effectively manage our expanded operations following the Merger Following the Merger, the size of the combined businesses is significantly larger than the previous size of either Resorts' or MTR Gaming's business. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the Merger. We may incur additional expenses related to the Merger and the integration of our businesses We have already incurred, and may in the future incur, expenses in connection with the Merger and the integration of our businesses. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, marketing and benefits. While we have made significant progress in integrating Resorts and MTR, we may identify additional steps that should be taken to fully integrate the operation of our businesses. Any additional steps we take could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses and any such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately. We will be subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business The ownership and operation of casino gaming, riverboat and horseracing facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulation, and regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming businesses and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines, and take other actions, each of which poses a significant risk to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently hold all state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our present gaming operations, but we must periodically apply to renew many of our licenses and registrations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Any failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if additional laws or regulations are adopted or existing laws or regulations are amended, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. As an example, on August 26, 2014, the Board of Health of Hancock County, West Virginia adopted and approved the Clean Air Regulation Act of 2014 ("Regulation"), which will be 24 Table of Contents effective July 1, 2015. The Regulation, as currently adopted, will ban smoking in public places in Hancock County including at Mountaineer. We are continuing to evaluate the Regulation, its impact on our Mountaineer facility, and steps to become compliant with the Regulation upon its effective date. We expect that the Regulation will have a negative impact on our business and results of operations at Mountaineer, and such impact may be material. Any of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control Administration, the West Virginia Lottery Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, the Ohio Lottery Commission, and the Ohio State Racing Commission (which we refer to collectively as the Gaming Authorities) may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of their respective jurisdictions. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by any of the Gaming Authorities under these circumstances must be paid by the applicant, and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. If any of the Gaming Authorities determines that a person is unsuitable to own our securities, then, under the applicable gaming or horse racing laws and regulations, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of their approvals, if, without the prior approval of the applicable Gaming Authority, we conduct certain business with the unsuitable person. Our officers, directors, and key employees will also be subject to a variety of regulatory requirements and various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If any of the applicable Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee of ours unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the Gaming Authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could materially adversely affect our gaming operations. Applicable gaming laws and regulations restrict our ability to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities. Such transactions would generally require approval of applicable Gaming Authorities, and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. If state regulatory authorities were to find any person unsuitable with regard to his, her or its relationship to us or any of our subsidiaries, we would be required to sever our relationships with that person, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, gaming companies are generally subject to significant revenue based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. For more information, see "Governmental Gaming Regulations" in Item 1. 25 Table of Contents We rely on our key personnel Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep our senior executives and highly qualified employees. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not succeed in hiring or retaining the executives and other employees that we need. We might not enter into employment contracts with all of our senior executives, and we might not obtain key man insurance policies for any or all of our executives. A sudden loss of or inability to replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos and race tracks The operation of our business requires qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming and horse racing industry experience and qualifications who are able to obtain the requisite licenses and approval from the applicable Gaming Authorities. While not currently the case, there has from time to time been a shortage of skilled labor in the regions of Resorts' and MTR Gaming's casinos and race tracks. In addition to limitations that may otherwise exist in the supply of skilled labor, the continued expansion of gaming near Resorts' and MTR Gaming's casinos and race tracks, including the expansion of Native American gaming, may make it more difficult for us to attract qualified individuals. While we believe that we will continue to be able to attract and retain qualified employees, shortages of skilled labor will make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain the services of a satisfactory number of qualified employees, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result. We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks to operate our business The Federal Interstate Horse Racing Act and the state racing laws in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at those racetracks. In addition, in order to operate slot machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the slot machines (a "proceeds agreement") with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers and with a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at any of our racetracks, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at the applicable racetrack. In addition, if we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs (including if we do not have in place the legally required proceeds agreement with the Mountaineer pari-mutuel clerks union), we will not be permitted to continue our gaming operations at those facilities. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. Particularly, in light of current support for changes to federal and state labor laws, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future. 26 Table of Contents Because portions of the land on which our facilities are situated are leased, the termination of such leases could adversely affect our business Resorts owns the parcel on which Eldorado Reno is located, except for approximately 30,000 square feet which is leased from C. S. & Y. Associates, a general partnership of which Donald Carano, father of Gary L. Carano, is a general partner (the "CSY Lease"). The CSY Lease expires on June 30, 2027. If Resorts defaults on a payment under the CSY Lease or if certain other specified events were to occur, C. S. & Y. Associates has the right to terminate the lease and take possession of the property located on the premises. If C. S. & Y. Associates were to exercise these rights, this could adversely affect our business. A subsidiary of Resorts is party to a ground lease with the City of Shreveport for the land on which Eldorado Shreveport was built (the "Shreveport Lease"). The Shreveport Lease has a term ending December 20, 2015 with subsequent renewals for up to an additional 35 years. If Resorts defaults on a payment under the Shreveport Lease or if certain other specified events were to occur, the City of Shreveport could terminate the lease. If the City of Shreveport were to exercise this right, this could adversely affect our business. Because we own real property, we will be subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of solid, animal and hazardous wastes and exposure to hazardous materials. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently subject to change. In addition, our horseracing facilities are subject to laws and regulations that address the impacts of manure and wastewater generated by Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations ("CAFO") on water quality, including, but not limited to, storm water discharges. CAFO regulations include permit requirements and water quality discharge standards. Enforcement of CAFO regulations has been receiving increased governmental attention. Compliance with these and other environmental laws can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. We have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating, or contributing to remediation costs related to, contamination located at or near certain of our facilities, including contamination related to underground storage tanks and groundwater contamination arising from prior uses of land on which certain of our facilities are located. In addition, we have been, and may in the future be, required to manage, abate, remove or contain manure and wastewater generated by concentrated animal feeding operations due to our racetrack operations, mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. Moreover, violations can result in significant fines or penalties and, in some instances, interruption or cessation of operations. We are also subject to laws and regulations that create liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of regulated materials into the environment. Certain of these laws and regulations impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on a current or previous owner or operator of property for the costs of remediating regulated materials on or emanating from its property. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial. An earthquake, flood, act of terrorism other natural disasters could adversely affect our business Although we maintain insurance that is customary and appropriate for our business, each of our insurance policies is subject to certain exclusions. In addition, in some cases our property insurance coverage is combined among certain of our properties and Silver Legacy or is otherwise in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding our facilities in the event of a total loss. Such losses may occur as a result of any number of casualty events, including as a result 27 Table of Contents of earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or other severe weather conditions. In particular, the Reno area has been, and may in the future be, subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters and Eldorado Shreveport is located in a designated flood zone. Inadequate insurance or lack of available insurance for these and other certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of the casualty event or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered under our policies. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to fund replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. Eldorado Reno and the Silver Legacy currently have combined insurance coverage for earthquake and flood damage and for any resulting business interruption and Eldorado Reno, Silver Legacy and Eldorado Shreveport have combined insurance coverage for acts of terrorism. Under these policies, Eldorado Reno and the Silver Legacy have combined per occurrence earthquake coverage of $100 million and combined aggregate flood coverage of $250 million. Eldorado Reno, Silver Legacy and Eldorado Shreveport have combined terrorism coverage of $800 million. In the event that an earthquake, flood or terrorist act causes damage only to Eldorado Reno's property, Eldorado Reno is eligible to receive up to the full amount of insurance coverage for the applicable event of loss, depending on the replacement cost. However, in the event that Eldorado Reno and Silver Legacy are damaged in an earthquake, Eldorado Reno is only entitled to receive insurance proceeds only after Silver Legacy's claims have been satisfied. In addition, in the event that both Eldorado Reno and Silver Legacy are damaged in a flood or Eldorado Reno, Eldorado Shreveport and Silver Legacy are damaged as a result of a terrorist act, our properties are entitled to receive an allocated portion of the insurance proceeds and, to the extent that any insurance proceeds remain available after satisfaction of the insurance claims by the other properties, such remaining proceeds. As a result, there is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient if there is a major event of loss that impacts us and Silver Legacy, and, in particular, if there is an earthquake that causes significant damage. In addition, upon the expiration of our current policies which expire in August 2015 (subject to annual renewal), we cannot assure that adequate coverage will be available at economically justifiable rates, if at all. Because Eldorado Shreveport is located in a designated flood zone, it is subject to risks in addition to those risks associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. We currently maintain flood insurance for Eldorado Shreveport and for the potential resulting business interruption. However, there is no assurance that this coverage will be sufficient if there is a major flood. Reduced patronage, the loss of use of the casino, the inability to use a dockside facility or riverboat for any period of time due to flood, hurricane or other severe weather could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure All of our facilities will generally be subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. These risks are particularly pronounced at Eldorado Shreveport's riverboat and dockside facilities because of their location on and adjacent to water. 28 Table of Contents We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our business and financial condition From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our respective businesses. In particular, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security Our operations require that we collect customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data, including due to cyber-attack, system failure, computer virus or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, employees or employees of third party vendors, may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Operations of Resorts and MTR Gaming have historically been subject to seasonal variations and quarterly fluctuations in operating results, and we can expect to experience such variations and fluctuation in the future Historically, the operations of Resorts' and MTR Gaming's gaming facilities have typically been subject to seasonal variations. Eldorado Reno's strongest operating results have generally occurred in the second and third quarters and the weakest results have generally occurred during the period from November through February when weather conditions adversely affected operating results. In the Reno market, excessive snowfall during the winter months can make travel to the Reno area more difficult. This often results in significant declines in traffic on major highways, particularly on routes to and from Northern California, and causes a decline in customer volume. Furthermore, management believes that approximately two-thirds of visitors to the Reno market arrive by some form of ground transportation. In addition, winter conditions can frequently adversely affect transportation routes to Mountaineer, Presque Isle Downs and Scioto Downs and cause cancellations of live horse racing. As a result, unfavorable seasonal conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In general, it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain business interruption coverage for casualties resulting from severe weather, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain casualty insurance coverage at affordable rates, if at all, for casualties resulting from severe weather. 29 Table of Contents Because we will be heavily dependent upon hotel/casino and related operations that are conducted in certain limited regions, we will be subject to greater risks than a company that is geographically or otherwise more diversified Our business is heavily dependent upon hotel/casino and related operations that are conducted in three discrete markets. As a result, we are still subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company that has greater geographical diversity. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: • local economic and competitive conditions; • inaccessibility due to weather conditions, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters, including earthquakes and flooding; • a decline in the number of residents in or near, or visitors to, our operations; and • a decrease in gaming activities at any of our facilities. Any of the factors outlined above could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business may cause us to incur impairments to indefinite lived intangible assets or long-lived assets We test indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. We will also be required to consider whether the fair values of any of our investments accounted for under the equity method have declined below their carrying value whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that recorded values may not be recoverable. Estimated fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on estimated future results of the investee and market indicators of the terminal year capitalization rate. If any such declines are considered to be other than temporary, we will be required to record a write-down to estimated fair value. In 2011, Resorts' impairment test in the Silver Legacy Joint Venture resulted in the recognition of a non-cash impairment charge of $33.1 million resulting in the elimination of Resorts' remaining investment in the Silver Legacy Joint Venture at that time. Security concerns, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical events could have a material adverse effect on our future operations Security concerns, terrorist attacks and other geopolitical events can have a material adverse effect on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming and entertainment industries in general and our business in particular. We cannot predict the extent to which any future security alerts, terrorist attacks or other geopolitical events might impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 