ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into groups: risks related to our industry and the markets we serve, risks related specifically to our business and operations, risks related to our capital structure, risks concerning law, regulation and policy that affect our business, risks related to our spin-off from DG, and risks concerning our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry and the Markets We Serve The industry is in a state of rapid technological change and we may not be able to keep up with that pace. The advertisement distribution and management industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological change, frequent new products and service introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products with new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance existing products and services, develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may not succeed in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products and services that respond to technological change or emerging industry standards. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services. Our products and services may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we cannot, for technological or other reasons, develop and introduce products and services in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions, industry standards or other customer requirements, particularly if we have pre-announced the product and service releases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be harmed. The online advertising industry has undergone rapid and dramatic changes in its short history. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter in a new and rapidly evolving market. We may not be able to successfully address new risks and difficulties as they arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry has been adversely affected by continued economic challenges and uncertainty in the United States, Europe and throughout the world. Demand for online campaign management solutions and services to advertising agencies and advertisers tends to be tied to economic cycles, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Following the recent negative developments in the world economy, spending on traditional broadcast advertising has been adversely affected and several agency and analyst organizations now predict that the growth in online advertising may be slower than previously expected. We cannot assure you that advertising budgets and expenditures by advertising agencies and advertisers will not decline in any given period or that advertising spending will not be diverted to more traditional media or other online marketing products and services, which would lead to a decline in the demand for our campaign management solutions and services. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective customers' spending priorities. As a result, our revenues may not increase or may decline significantly in any given quarterly or annual period. 13 Table of Contents Seasonality, cyclicality and discretionary spending in buying patterns also makes forecasting difficult and can result in widely fluctuating quarterly results. Historically, the industry has experienced the lowest sales in the first quarter and the highest sales in the fourth quarter, with the second quarter being slightly stronger than the third quarter. Fourth quarter sales tend to be the highest due to increased customer advertising volumes for the holiday selling season. In addition, product and service revenues are influenced by political advertising, which generally occurs every two years. Nevertheless, in any single period, product and service revenues and delivery costs are subject to significant variation based on changes in the volume and mix of deliveries performed during such period. In addition, we have historically operated with little or no backlog. The absence of backlog and fluctuations in revenues and costs due to seasonality increases the difficulty of predicting our operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and competition may increase further as new participants enter the market and more established companies with greater resources seek to expand their market share. Competition within the markets for media distribution is intense. We face formidable competition from other companies that provide solutions and services similar to ours. Currently, our primary competitors are DoubleClick (a subsidiary of Google) and Atlas (a subsidiary of Facebook). In April 2013, the Atlas platform was acquired from Microsoft. Atlas offers solutions and services similar to ours and competes directly with us. We expect that Atlas will have the benefit of substantial financial resources, though it is unclear whether such resources will be focused on agency side campaign management products and capabilities to support the needs of advertisers wanting to advertise across multiple publishers and, thus, increase its ability to compete with us. There are other platform companies and demand side platform companies that offer advertisement services that could potentially expand their capabilities to include rich media, online video, verification and viewability in competition with us. Other competitors exist in niches in which we operate, such as rich media, online video, verification, viewability and social media. We believe that our ability to compete successfully with all of our service offerings depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, including: (i) the price, quality and performance of our products and those of our competitors; (ii) the timing and success of new product introductions; (iii) the emergence of new technologies; (iv) the number and nature of our competitors in a given market; (v) the protection of our intellectual property rights; and (vi) general market and economic conditions. In addition, the assertion of intellectual property rights by others factor into the ability to compete successfully. The competitive environment could result in price reductions that could result in lower profits and loss of our market share. The unilateral actions of certain browser companies that are owned by media companies combined with growing usage of mobile devices is likely to put more pressure on the relevance of the kind of 3rd party cookies that we currently use for targeting and measurement. Consumer technology companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo on the other hand with direct relationships with consumers have access to user log-in data that will allow them to target audiences and measure campaigns, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. We see data mining and data matching (both online and offline) as two keys to the next generation solutions for statistical user identification which will be used to augment 3rd party cookies, and we are well positioned to establish solutions of these types given our strengths in large scale data management and our global scale. In addition we are currently engaged in certain collaborative industry initiatives with the goal of providing a cookie alternative as well as testing certain third party technologies with whom we might partner. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, and several of our competitors have 14 Table of Contents combined or may combine in the future with larger companies with greater resources than ours. Through our open approach to technology partnerships, we have created cooperative relationships with a number of players in the market such as demand side platforms and search engine management. In addition, we have also integrated with businesses (e.g., MediaOcean) involved in planning and buying tools. Our integration allows a user to create a media plan in a different platform and push the plan into the Sizmek MDX platform. Our strategy is to offer our customers differentiated and valued added workflows while offering choice through an openness to connecting to other technologies. Notwithstanding our own efforts, this growing trend of cooperative relationships and consolidation within our industry may create a great number of powerful and aggressive competitors that may engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and/or make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and customers than we are able to. They may also adopt more aggressive pricing policies and may even provide services similar to ours at no additional cost by bundling them with their other product and service offerings. Any increase in the level of competition from these, or any other competitors, is likely to result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share and a potential decline in our revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing or future competitors. If we fail to withstand competitive pressures and compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Consolidation in the industry in which we operate could lead to increased competition and loss of customers. The Internet industry (and online advertising in particular) has experienced substantial consolidation. We expect this consolidation to continue. This consolidation could adversely affect our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including the following: •our customers could acquire or be acquired by our competitors and terminate their relationship with us; •our customers could merge with each other, which could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms; and •competitors could improve their competitive position through strategic acquisitions. Consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers may impair our ability to serve advertisements and to collect campaign data and could lead to a loss of significant online customers. The growing trend of consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers, and increasing industry presence of a small number of large companies, such as Google, Facebook and, most recently, Apple, with the announcement of its iAd platform for placing ads on Apple's applications, could harm our business. We are currently able to serve, track and manage advertisements for our customers in a variety of networks and websites, which is a major benefit to our customers' overall campaign management. Concentration of advertising networks could substantially impair our ability to serve advertisements if these networks or websites decide not to permit us to serve, track or manage advertisements on their websites, if they develop ad placement systems that are incompatible with our ad serving systems or if they use their market power to force their customers to use certain vendors on their networks or websites. These networks or websites could also prohibit or limit our aggregation of advertising campaign data if they use technology that is not compatible with our technology. In addition, concentration of desirable advertising space in a small number of networks and websites could result in competitive pricing pressures and diminish the value of our advertising campaign databases, as the value of these databases depends to some degree on the continuous aggregation of data from advertising campaigns on a variety of different advertising networks and websites. Additionally, major publishers can terminate our ability 15 Table of Contents to serve advertisements on their properties on short notice. If we are no longer able to serve, track and manage advertisements on a variety of networks and websites, our ability to service campaigns effectively and aggregate useful campaign data for our customers will be limited. The Internet advertising or marketing market may deteriorate, or develop more slowly than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Internet advertising and marketing market is relatively new and rapidly evolving. As a result, demand and market acceptance for Internet advertising solutions and services is uncertain. If the market for Internet advertising or marketing deteriorates, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business could suffer. The future success of our business is dependent on an increase in the use of the Internet, the commitment of advertisers and advertising agencies to the Internet as an advertising and marketing medium, the advertisers' implementation of advertising campaigns and the willingness of current or potential customers to outsource their Internet advertising and marketing needs. If our products do not achieve the anticipated level of market acceptance, our future growth could be jeopardized. Broad adoption of our products and services will require us to overcome significant market development hurdles, many of which we cannot predict. Internet security poses risks to our entire business. The process of e-commerce aggregation by means of our hardware and software infrastructure involves the transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of the advertiser, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. The compromise of our security or misappropriation of proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from other companies to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure Internet transmission of confidential information, such as credit and other proprietary information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect client transaction data. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause material interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that our activities or the activities of others involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our business may not grow if the Internet advertising market does not continue to develop or if we are unable to successfully implement our business model. We generate revenue by providing interactive marketing solutions to advertisers, ad agencies and web publishers. The profit potential for this business model is uncertain. For our business to be successful, Internet advertising will need to achieve increasing market acceptance by advertisers, ad agencies and web publishers. The intense competition among Internet advertising sellers has led to the creation of a number of pricing alternatives for Internet advertising. These alternatives make it difficult for us to project future levels of advertising revenue and applicable gross margin that can be sustained by us or the Internet advertising industry in general. Intensive marketing and sales efforts are necessary to educate prospective advertisers regarding the uses and benefits of, and to generate demand for, our products and services. Advertisers could be 16 Table of Contents reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. Acceptance of our Internet advertising solutions will depend on the continued emergence of Internet commerce, communication, and advertising, and demand for our solutions. Our business may be harmed if we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party challenges or if the intellectual property we use or business operations in which we engage infringes upon the proprietary rights of third parties. The steps taken to protect our proprietary information may not prevent misappropriation of such information, and such protection may not preclude competitors from developing confusingly similar brand names or promotional materials or developing products and services similar to ours. We consider our trademarks, copyrights, advertising and promotion design and artwork to be of value and important to our business. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our distributors and customers and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The technology services sector within advertising and marketing contains a large and ever growing number of new and existing technology providers with potentially overlapping intellectual property claims. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property or business operations do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we believe that our trademarks, copyrights, advertising and promotion design and artwork do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, we may still receive future communications from third parties asserting that we are infringing, or may be infringing, on the proprietary rights of third parties. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, require us to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation and diversion of management attention. If such claims are successful, we may not be able to obtain licenses necessary for the operation of our business, or, if obtainable, such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, either of which could prevent our ability to operate our business. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced, and continue to experience, growth in our operations and headcount, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our solutions and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve, among other things: •our information and communication systems, to ensure that our offices around the world are well coordinated and that we can effectively communicate with our growing base of customers; •our systems of internal controls, to ensure timely and accurate reporting of all of our operations; •our documentation of our information technology systems and our business processes for our advertising and billing systems; and •our information technology infrastructure, to maintain the effectiveness of our systems. In order to enhance and improve these systems, we will be required to make significant capital expenditures and allocate valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make additional expenditures to address these issues, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel to manage the business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our key employees or hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, upon the services of our executive team. Uncontrollable circumstances, such as the death or incapacity of any key executive officer, could have a serious impact on our business. Our future success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, operations, information technology and marketing personnel. There is, and will continue to be, intense competition for personnel with experience in the markets applicable to our products and services. Because of this intense competition, we may not be able to retain key personnel or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future. The inability to retain or to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could have a considerable impact on our business. If we fail to detect click-through fraud or other invalid clicks, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks and other invalid clicks on advertisements delivered by us from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that are not intended by the user to link to the underlying content, or when a software program, known as a bot, spider, or crawler, intentionally simulates user activity causing impressions, ad engagements or clicks to be counted as real users. Such malicious software programs can run on single machines or on tens of thousands of machines, making them difficult to detect and filter. These types of fraudulent activities could harm our business and our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the data that our solutions provide to our customers will be inaccurate and the affected advertisers may lose confidence in our solutions to deliver a return on their investment. If advertisers become dissatisfied with our solutions, they may choose to do business with our competitors or reduce their spending on Internet advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. System disruptions and security threats to our computer networks or phone systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. The performance and reliability of our computer network and phone systems infrastructure is critical to our operations. Any computer system error or failure, regardless of cause, could result in a substantial outage that materially disrupts our operations. In addition, we face the threat to our computer systems of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions. We devote significant resources to the security of our computer systems, but our computer systems may still be vulnerable to these threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these system disruptions and security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our use of "open source" software could subject our technology to general release or require us to re-engineer our solutions, or subject us to litigation, which could harm our business. Our technology incorporates or is distributed with software or data licensed from third parties, including some software that incorporates so-called "open source" software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or 18 Table of Contents using the open source software, that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use, and that we offer our services that incorporate the open source software for no cost. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. While we carefully monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to our software, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts. There is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our solutions. In the future, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering some of our solutions, and these licenses may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be forced to re-engineer some of our solutions or discontinue use of portions of the functionality provided by our solutions. In addition, the terms of open source licenses may require us to provide our solutions that use open source software to others on unfavorable terms. If a third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contain the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Defects or errors in our solutions may impair our customers' ability to deliver against their advertising campaign goals, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. The technology underlying our solutions, including our own proprietary technology and third-party technology provided by our vendors, may contain material defects or errors that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and cause significant harm to our reputation. These defects or errors, or other disruptions in service or other performance problems in our solutions, could result in the incomplete or inaccurate delivery of advertisements, including the inability of an advertisement format to render within a specific placement, in the wrong geographical location or in a context that the advertiser finds inappropriate or otherwise undesirable for its brand. If we experience any of the defects, errors or other problems described above, our reputation could suffer and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new business could be harmed. In addition, customers whose advertisements were placed in an incomplete or inaccurate manner or undesirable context could refuse to pay for such advertisements, demand refunds or future credits or initiate litigation against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to innovate and provide high quality solutions and services, as well as increase our revenues from more traditional solutions and services, we may not remain competitive, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on providing high quality solutions and services that make online campaign management easier and more efficient for our customers. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in online advertising and campaign management, and therefore the prices that we charge for existing services and solutions generally decline over time. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our technology and our existing solutions and services and introduce new high-quality solutions and services. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our solutions and services on a timely basis, and as a result are unable to provide quality solutions and services that run without 19 Table of Contents complication or service interruptions, our customers may become dissatisfied and we may lose customers to our competitors and our reputation in the industry may suffer, making it difficult to attract new customers. Our operating results will also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our customers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market. As online advertising and campaign management technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer solutions that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those offered by us. Customers will not continue to do business with us if our solutions do not deliver advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner, if the advertiser's investment in advertising does not generate the desired results, or if our campaign management tools do not provide our customers with the help they need to manage their campaigns. If we are unable to meet these challenges or if we over-expend our resources in our research and development of new solutions and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to grow our market share in this area significantly, our revenue could decrease. Our business depends on a strong brand reputation, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to expanding our base of customers and maintaining brand loyalty among customers, particularly in North America where brand perception can impact the competitive position in other markets worldwide, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of competitors providing similar services and solutions. Our two key brands are MediaMind for campaign management and Peer 39 for brand safety and contextual targeting. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in research and development and in the marketing of our solutions and services, and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader and to continue to provide high quality solutions and services, which we may not do successfully. New advertisement blocking technologies could limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements by our solutions, which could undermine the viability of our business. Advertisement blocking technologies, such as "filter" software programs, that can limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements delivered through our solutions are currently available for Internet users and are continuing to be developed. If these technologies become widespread, the commercial viability of the current Internet advertisement model may be undermined. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. More individuals are using non-personal computer devices to access the Internet, and browser companies may change some of their underlying functionality. Our solutions developed for these devices and browsers may not be widely deployed. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers ("PCs"), including mobile devices, game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Many of these devices do not accept the cookies we currently use to target audiences and measure campaign performance and require a new approach. If we are unable to deliver our solutions and services to a substantial number of alternative device users or if we are slow to develop solutions and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC communications devices, 20 Table of Contents we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market. Our failure to deliver our solutions and services to a substantial number of alternative device users, or failure to develop in a timely manner solutions and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC communications devices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of the more popular browsers in use today have indicated that in the future, they may not accept or support the cookies we currently use to target audiences and measure campaign performance. Furthermore, the ability to provide attribution, tracking a user's activity through multiple ad, search, or site interactions across multiple devices requires the development of a single Cross Device ID. If we are unable to develop or license this type of technology, our services may be insufficient to meet the needs of our customers in the future. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing network infrastructure to accommodate increased systems traffic and technology advances or changing business or regional privacy requirements. For our business to be successful, our network infrastructure must perform well and be reliable. We will need significantly more computing power as traffic within our systems increases and our solutions and services become more complex. As advertisers use more video, rich media and interactive ads, ad unit sizes increase substantially, causing greater load on our servers and increasing the cost of delivery. We expect to continue spending significant amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased Internet traffic and roll-out new solutions and services, many of which internal improvements were delayed during the recent financial crisis. This expansion will be expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. The costs associated with these necessary adjustments to our network infrastructure could harm our operating results. In addition, cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business or regional privacy requirements associated with our network infrastructure could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Problems with content delivery services, bandwidth providers, data centers or other third parties could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business relies significantly on third-party vendors, such as content delivery services, bandwidth providers and data centers. For example, we have entered into an agreement (as amended) to use a third-party, Akamai Technologies, Inc. ("Akamai"), to provide content delivery services to assist us in serving advertisements. We have committed to a minimum revenue amount to Akamai during the calendar year and to using Akamai for at least 75% of our delivery needs, excluding China, provided Akamai meets our service requirements. The term of our agreement with Akamai is until May 31, 2014. Akamai may terminate this agreement if we materially breach the agreement and such breach continues uncured for 30 days following Akamai's notice to us. If Akamai or other third-party vendors fail to provide their services or if their services are no longer available to us for any reason and we are not immediately able to find replacement providers, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, any disruption in network access or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business operations. If our service is disrupted, we may lose revenues directly related to the impression that we fail to serve and we may be obligated to compensate clients for their loss. Our reputation may also suffer in the event of a disruption. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may negatively impact our business and we are unable to predict the nature and extent of any such impact. We exercise very little control over these third- party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We license technologies from third-parties to 21 Table of Contents facilitate aspects of our data center and connectivity operations including, among others, Internet traffic management services. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for such elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services could negatively impact our customer relationships and materially adversely affect our brand reputation and our business, financial condition or results of operations and expose us to liabilities to third parties. Our data centers are vulnerable to natural disasters, terrorism and system failures that could significantly harm our business operations and lead to client dissatisfaction. In delivering our solutions, we are dependent on the operation of our data centers, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, war, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our system, and similar events. In particular, two of our data centers, in Tokyo, Japan and Los Angeles, California, are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes and others are located in areas with a high risk of terrorist attacks, such as New York, New York. Our insurance policies have limited coverage in such cases and may not fully compensate us for any loss. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a terrorist attack, a provider's decision to close a facility we are using without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand reputation could be damaged if customers believe our system is unreliable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our acquired businesses may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, technology and intellectual property issues, including claims of infringement, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may enter into, or seek to enter into, business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. Our business strategy may include the acquisition of complementary businesses and product lines. Any such acquisitions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such acquisitions, including: •the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; •the potential disruption of our business; •the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our product and service offerings; •difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, with respect to accounting matters and otherwise; •the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; and 22 Table of Contents •the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management and operational structure. Any acquired businesses and product lines may not be successfully integrated with our operations, personnel or technologies. Any inability to successfully integrate the operations, personnel and technologies associated with an acquired business and/or product line may negatively affect our business and results of operation. We may dispose of any of our businesses or product lines in the event that we are unable to successfully integrate them, or in the event that management determines that any such business or product line is no longer in our strategic interests. We are exposed to the risks of operating internationally. International operations are important to our future operations, growth and prospects. We have operations in numerous foreign countries and may continue to expand our operations internationally. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which services are provided. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various jurisdictions. In addition, expansion into new international markets requires additional management attention and resources in order to tailor our products, services and solutions to the unique aspects of each country. Some of the risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: •challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; •longer payment cycles in some countries; •legal and regulatory restrictions; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; •challenges to our transfer pricing arrangements; •foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; •political and economic instability and export restrictions; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •higher costs associated with doing business internationally. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations. We are exposed to risks relating to our location in Israel and conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our Israeli operations, which includes our primary research and development facilities located in Herzliya, Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel could directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our products to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel, acts of terrorism, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and research and development and cause our revenues to decrease. Moreover, in order to effectively compete in certain 23 Table of Contents foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas services or products. In addition, our business insurance may not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our Israeli operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2013, we had 245 employees based in Israel. Our employees in Israel may be called upon to perform up to 36 days (and in some cases more) of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 45 (and in some cases, up to 49), and in emergency circumstances, could be called to active duty. In response to increased tension and hostilities, since September 2000 there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our operations, business and results of operations. Market conditions or weak financial performance in our operations may make it difficult to obtain financing needed to make acquisitions necessary to grow our business or protect our existing lines of business. We have grown primarily through acquisition over the past several years. If we are unable to find sources of capital on favorable terms due to market conditions or weak financial performance in our operations, we may lose opportunities to expand our business through additional acquisitions, or to protect against erosion of revenue and margins in our existing businesses. If our stock price becomes weak or depressed, we could have difficulty using our stock as currency in acquisitions, or be forced to enter into dilutive transactions using our stock to consummate acquisitions necessary to our business strategy. Risks Related to our Capital Structure A substantial portion of our assets is reflected as goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, which may be subject to further impairment should our market capitalization fall substantially below the book value of our shareholders' equity or our actual or expected future cash flows fall sufficiently below our forecasts. A substantial portion of our assets is reflected as goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, which may be subject to further impairment should our market capitalization fall substantially below the book value of our shareholders' equity or our actual or expected future cash flows fall sufficiently below our forecasts. We have a substantial amount of goodwill recorded. Our goodwill was created in the acquisitions we completed over the past several years. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in future periods from the businesses that we have acquired, and/or our market capitalization declines relative to our book value, we may be required to take an impairment charge against the balances reflected on our balance sheet that would result in a reduction to our operating results in the period in which we take the charge. Further, our market capitalization plus a reasonable control premium is an indicator of the total value of our company. If our market capitalization should fall substantially below the book value of our 24 Table of Contents shareholders' equity or our actual or expected future cash flows fall sufficiently below our forecasts, it may result in us recording an impairment charge in the future. The market price and trading volume of our common stock could be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. We cannot provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights and preferences superior to those applicable to the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation includes a provision for the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, with each series containing such rights and preferences as the board of directors may determine from time to time, without prior notice to, or approval of, stockholders. Among others, such rights and preferences might include the rights to dividends, superior voting rights, liquidation preferences and rights to convert into common stock. The rights and preferences of any such series of preferred stock, if issued, may be superior to the rights and preferences applicable to the common stock and might result in a decrease in the price of the common stock. Risks Related to Law, Regulation and Policy Affecting our Business Uncertainty regarding a variety of United States and foreign laws may expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to offer our solutions and services. The laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their customers and users are currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both United States and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, tort, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement or other theories based on the nature and content of the advertisements posted or the content generated by our customers. From time to time, we have received notices from individuals who do not want to be exposed to advertisements delivered by us on behalf of our customers. If one of these complaints results in liability to us, it could be costly, encourage similar lawsuits, distract management and harm our reputation and possibly our business. In addition, increased attention focused on these issues and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively affect the growth of our business. There is also uncertainty regarding the application to us of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain advertisers' businesses, including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, adult content, financial services, alcohol or firearms. Existing or new legislation could expose us to substantial liability, restrict our ability to deliver services to our customers and post ads for various industries, limit our ability to grow and cause us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Several other federal laws could also expose us to liability and impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of the Act. In addition, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of online services to collect 25 Table of Contents information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. We must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business and on our ability to offer our services or products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, local operators, partners or agents will not violate our policies. Furthermore, it has been reported in the press that some regional regulatory bodies, including in the EU and Brazil, are considering drastic changes to regulations governing user tracking, measurement and profiling, as well as the definitions of Personally Identifiable Information. Such regulatory changes could have the effect of causing us to spend significantly more money to segregate data elements, to exit the measurement, tracking, and optimization business in specific regions, or even block us entirely from providing services in specific regions. The Israeli tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes, possibly with a retroactive effect. Some of our investments in Israeli facilities have been granted "Approved Enterprise" status by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor. In addition, we have elected to treat some of our investments in Israeli facilities as a "Privileged Enterprise" under the Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law. Income that is attributable to an Approved Enterprise or Privileged Enterprise (if it meets the relevant qualification requirements of applicable law) is eligible for tax benefits under the Investment Law. The availability of the tax benefits is subject to certain requirements, including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions, filing certain reports with the Investment Center and complying with Israeli intellectual property laws. Generally, income attributed to the Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprise is exempt from tax for a certain period, or the Exemption Period, subject to certain conditions and limitations, and may qualify for a reduced corporate tax rate of 10% to 25% for additional limited periods after the Exemption Period, depending on, among other things, the percentage of foreign investment in a company and the location of its facilities. If we do not meet the relevant eligibility requirements for the tax benefits discussed above, these tax benefits may be cancelled (possibly with retroactive effect), and our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. In addition, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received plus interest and penalties thereon. The tax benefits that our current Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprise programs receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, as we would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Finally, in the event of a distribution of a dividend from the above mentioned exempt income, the amount distributed will be subject to corporate tax at the rate applicable to the Approved Enterprise's and Privileged Enterprise's income during the Exemption Period absent exemption in addition to withholding tax. Distribution of dividends attributable to income that was not exempt as described above will be subject, in Israel, only to withholding tax. 26 Table of Contents Privacy concerns could lead to legislative and other limitations on our ability to collect user level data from Internet users, including limitations on our use of cookie or conversion tag technology and user profiling, which is crucial to our ability to provide our solutions and services to our customers. Our ability to conduct targeted advertising campaigns and compile data that we use to execute campaign strategies for our customers depends, in part, on the use of "cookies" and "conversion tags" to track Internet users and their online behavior, which allows us to create user profiles to deliver more relevant advertisements to users and to measure an advertising campaign's effectiveness. A cookie is a small file of information stored on a user's computer that allows us to recognize that user's browser when we serve advertisements. Our conversion tags are pieces of code placed on specific pages of our customers' or prospective customers' websites that record a specific action such as the completion of an online form or the check out on an ecommerce website. As a general matter we do not collect personally identifiable information on users. In certain services requested by our clients, the Sizmek MDX platform may utilize IP addresses for geo-targeting, click-fraud detection and for use in analytics. In terms of data retention, logs with raw user data are saved for 13 months as required by Interactive Advertising Bureau policy. We fully support industry and regulatory privacy initiatives that encourage transparency and choice for users in the Internet community. As such, we work to stay at the forefront of the rapidly evolving global privacy landscape and are committed to the Network Advertising Institute, Digital Advertising Alliance and European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance self-regulatory programs for online behavioral advertising. Our privacy program is built upon the fair information privacy principles that form the basis for applicable laws and industry self-regulatory initiatives in the regions where we operate. Our program is managed by a multi-disciplinary team comprised of an executive sponsor that reports to the CEO along with representatives from across the business, including legal, product marketing, R&D and sales. This team monitors global privacy developments and creates organizational accountability for meeting our privacy commitments. Notwithstanding the foregoing initiatives, government authorities inside the United States concerned with the privacy of Internet users have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, conversion tags or user profiling. Bills aimed at regulating the collection and use of personal data from Internet users are currently pending in U.S. Congress and many state legislatures. Attempts to regulate spyware may be drafted in such a way as to include technology, like cookies and conversion tags, in the definition of spyware, thereby creating restrictions on our ability to use them. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce have conducted hearings regarding user profiling, the collection of non-personally identifiable information and online privacy. Our foreign operations may also be adversely affected by regulatory action outside the United States. For example, the European Union has adopted a directive addressing data privacy that limits the collection, disclosure and use of information regarding European Internet users. In addition, the European Union has enacted an electronic communications directive that imposes certain restrictions on the use of cookies and conversion tags and also places restrictions on the sending of unsolicited communications. Each European Union member country was required to enact legislation to comply with the provisions of the electronic communications directive by October 31, 2003 (though not all have done so). Germany has also enacted additional laws limiting the use of user profiling, and other countries, both in and out of the European Union, may impose similar limitations. Internet users may also directly limit or eliminate the placement of cookies on their computers by using third party software that blocks cookies, or by disabling or restricting the cookie functions of their Internet browser software. Internet browser software upgrades may also result in limitations on the use of cookies or conversion tags. Microsoft's Internet Explorer 10 browser has the Do Not Track signal turned on by default and Firefox has publicly talked about turning on the 3rd party cookie blocking 27 Table of Contents feature by default, in both cases impacting our ability to deliver and measure more targeted advertising. Technologies like the Platform for Privacy Preferences (P3P) Project may limit collection of cookie and conversion tag information. Individuals have also brought class action suits against companies related to the use of cookies and several companies, including companies in the Internet advertising industry, have had claims brought against them before the Federal Trade Commission regarding the collection and use of Internet user information. We may be subject to such suits in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to collect such information. If our ability to use cookies or conversion tags or to build user profiles is substantially restricted due to the foregoing, or for any other reason, we would have to generate and use other technology or methods that allow the gathering of user profile data in order to provide our services to our customers. This change in technology or methods could require significant reengineering time and resources, and may not be complete in time to avoid negative consequences to our business. In addition, alternative technology or methods might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If the use of cookies and conversion tags are prohibited and we are not able to efficiently and cost effectively create new technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any compromise of our security that results in the release of Internet users' and/or our customers' data could seriously limit the adoption of our solutions and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand, expose us to liability and subject us to reporting obligations under various state laws, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase, as the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personal information) and the number of countries where we operate has increased, and we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be required to collect sales and use taxes on the services we sell in additional jurisdictions in the future, which may decrease sales, and we may be subject to liability for sales and use taxes and related interest and penalties on prior sales. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services, or that we have failed to do so where required in the past, could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and decrease our ability to compete for future sales. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe our services are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we presently believe sales and use taxes are not due. We reserve estimated sales and use taxes in our financial statements but we cannot be certain that we have made sufficient reserves to cover all taxes that might be assessed. Many states are also pursuing legislative expansion of the scope of goods and services that are subject to sales and similar taxes as well as the circumstances in which a vendor of goods and services must collect such taxes. Furthermore, legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress that would provide states with additional authority to impose such taxes. Accordingly, it is possible that either federal or state legislative changes may require us to collect additional sales and similar taxes from our clients in the future. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Spin-off Sizmek has limited history operating as an independent publicly-traded company, and Sizmek's historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of its future results. On February 7, 2014, Sizmek was spun-off from DG, its former parent company. Prior to the spin-off, Sizmek had no operating history as a separate publicly-traded company. The historical information about Sizmek in this Form 10-K refers to Sizmek's business as part of DG. Sizmek's historical financial information included in this Form 10-K is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of DG. Accordingly, the historical financial information included herein does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that Sizmek would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that Sizmek will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: •Sizmek is in the process of making investments to replicate or outsource certain systems, infrastructure, and functional expertise since its spin-off from DG. These initiatives may prove costly to implement. It is expected Sizmek's administrative costs will increase from the historical amounts allocated to it in its pre spin-off financial statements and, as a result, its future profitability may decline; and •generally, prior to the spin-off, Sizmek had relied on DG for working capital requirements and other cash requirements, including in connection with Sizmek's previous acquisitions. Now that the spin-off has been completed, Sizmek's access to and cost of debt financing may be different from the historical access to and cost of debt financing under DG. Differences in access to and cost of debt financing may result in differences in the interest rate charged to Sizmek on financings, as well as the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that may be available to Sizmek, which could have an adverse effect on Sizmek's business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. For additional information about the past financial performance of Sizmek's business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined financial statements, see the sections entitled "Selected Financial Data," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. DG may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the spin-off or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. We and DG have entered into certain agreements, such as the separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement and certain other agreements that provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off. We are relying on DG to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If DG is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If we do not have our own systems and services in place, or we do not have agreements with other providers of these services when the transitional or long-term agreements terminate, or if we do not implement the new systems or replace DG's services successfully, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, which could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These systems and services may also be more expensive to install, implement and operate, or less efficient than the systems and services DG is currently providing. 29 Table of Contents We are responsible for all pre-closing liabilities and contingencies of DG. Because DG has contributed all of its cash and working capital to Sizmek as part of the spin-off, we have assumed and are responsible for all pre-closing liabilities and any loss contingencies of DG and its television business prior to the merger of DG with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Extreme Reach. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off, we have agreed to indemnify DG and its affiliates (including Extreme Reach following the merger) from all such liabilities and loss contingencies. The inability to collect certain accounts receivable of DG's television business could adversely impact Sizmek's financial condition. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and transition services agreement, Extreme Reach is responsible for the collection of certain outstanding accounts receivable of DG's television business on behalf of Sizmek, which total $48.6 million as of December 31, 2013. If those accounts receivable are not collected, collected in part, or delayed in collections, Sizmek will recognize additional losses (to the extent existing reserves related to those accounts are insufficient) and weaker than expected cash flows. Risks Related to Our Stock We have a very limited trading history in our common stock, which could subject our shareholders to wide fluctuations in market price and trading volumes. Shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. We cannot provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 