Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the market price of shares of our common stock and our ability to, among other things, satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders, which in turn could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Some statements in this report including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties The geographic concentration of our portfolio in certain states could cause us to be more susceptible to adverse weather, economic or regulatory changes or developments in the areas in which our properties are located than if we owned a more geographically dispersed portfolio, which could materially and adversely affect the value of our farms and our ability to lease our farms on favorable terms or at all. As of the date of this Annual Report, our farms in Illinois, Colorado, North Carolina, Arkansas and South Carolina represented 28.2%, 20.4%, 11.1%, 10.5% and 10.0%, respectively, of the total acreage in our portfolio. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to developments or conditions in the areas in which our farms are located, including adverse weather conditions (such as windstorms, tornados, floods, drought, hail and temperature extremes), transportation conditions (including navigation of the Mississippi River), crop disease, pests and other adverse growing conditions, and unfavorable or uncertain political, economic, business or regulatory conditions (such as changes in price supports, subsidies, water management regimes and environmental regulations). Any such developments or conditions could materially and adversely affect the value of our farms and our ability to lease our farms on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our portfolio is comprised primarily of properties used to grow primary crops such as corn, soybeans, wheat, rice and cotton, which subjects us to risks associated with concentrating our portfolio in a single asset class devoted to a limited number of crop types. Our portfolio is comprised primarily of properties used to grow primary crops, such as corn, soybeans, wheat, rice and cotton. As a result, any development or situation that adversely affects the value of properties generally or the prices of corn, soybeans, wheat, rice or cotton including those described in the risk factor above, could have a more significant adverse impact on us than if our portfolio were diversified by asset type or crop type, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 18 Table of Contents Our business is dependent in part upon the profitability of our tenants' farming operations, and any sustained downturn in the profitability of their farming operations could have a material adverse effect on the amount of rent we can collect and, consequently, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We depend on our tenants to operate the farms we own in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent and real estate taxes, maintain certain insurance coverage and maintain the properties generally. The ability of our tenants to fulfill their obligations under our leases depends, in part, upon the overall profitability of their farming operations, which could be adversely impacted by, among other things, adverse weather conditions, crop prices, crop disease, pests, contaminants, and unfavorable or uncertain political, economic, business or regulatory conditions. We are particularly susceptible to any decline in the profitability of our tenants' farming operations for our leases that do not require 100% of the annual rent to be paid in advance of each spring planting season and for our variable-rent leases, pursuant to which the amount of rent depends on crop yields and prices realized by our tenants, as well as for our leases with terms longer than one year. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. We can provide no assurances that, if a tenant defaults on its obligations to us under a lease, we will be able to lease or re-lease that farm on economically favorable terms in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The rents we are able to negotiate for the properties we own will be based, in part, on each tenant's expectation of the land's future productivity. To the extent we lease to tenants whose operations become less profitable, prospective tenants may assume that the reduction in profitability is due, in part, to less productive land, which could make it more difficult to negotiate favorable rental rates for such properties. Our tenants' profitability could also be adversely affected by declines in market prices for primary crops. As a result, any downturn in the profitability of the farming operations of our tenants or a downturn in the farming industry as a whole could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding and significant near-term maturities, which may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations, restrict our operations and our ability to grow our business and revenues and restrict our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2015 and as of March 10, 2016, we had approximately $187.2 million and $237.2 million, respectively, of outstanding indebtedness, all of which is secured by mortgages on our farms. We intend to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions or for other purposes and, if necessary, we may borrow funds to make distributions to our stockholders in order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have approximately $84.7 million of indebtedness maturing in 2016, including $53.0 million maturing on April 29, 2016 (subject to three one-month extension options) and $26.0 million maturing on June 4, 2016. To the extent that we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, it may be necessary to refinance the debt through new debt or equity financings, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all and which could be dilutive to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms or at all, we may be forced to dispose of farms at inopportune times or on disadvantageous terms, which could result in losses. In addition, our debt agreements include customary events of default, the occurrence of any of which, after any applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, accelerate payment of all amounts outstanding under the loans and to exercise their remedies with respect to the collateral, including foreclosure and sale of the agricultural real estate securing the loans. Certain of our debt agreements also contain cross-default provisions that give the lender the right, in certain circumstances, to declare a default if we are in default under other loans. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents A significant portion of our farms are leased to entities under common control, and the failure of these entities to meet their obligations to us, or their determination not to renew leases or to terminate their farming operations, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of the date of this Annual Report, approximately 17.6% of the total acres in our portfolio are leased to entities controlled by James C. Justice. Additionally, approximately 7.8% of the total acres (representing an aggregate of approximately are leased to Astoria Farms and Hough Farms (entities controlled by Jesse J. Hough, who provides consulting services to us). Therefore, the success of our business will depend in part upon the profitability of these entities' farming operations and their ability to meet their obligations to us. In the event these affiliates are unable to meet their obligations to us, whether as a result of a downturn in the profitability of their farming operations or otherwise, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, these entities may determine to not renew their leases with us at the end of the lease term or to terminate their farming operations, whether as a result of a downturn in the profitability of their farming operations or otherwise, in which case, a substantial number of our properties would become vacant at the same time. In the event such a situation develops in the future, we may not have sufficient infrastructure in place to successfully identify suitable tenants to lease a large number of properties on an expedited basis, which may cause us to have vacant properties or negotiate lease terms less favorable to us. Our failure to continue to identify and consummate suitable acquisitions would significantly impede our growth and our ability to further diversify our portfolio by geography, crop type and tenant, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our ability to continue to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires that we identify and consummate suitable acquisition or investment opportunities that meet our investment criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We compete for the acquisition of farmland and properties related to farming with many other entities engaged in agricultural and real estate investment activities, including individual and family operators of farming businesses, corporate agriculture companies, financial institutions, institutional pension funds, public REITS, other real estate companies, private equity funds and other private real estate investors. These competitors may prevent us from acquiring desirable properties or may cause an increase in the price we must pay for such properties. Our competitors may have greater resources than we do and may be willing to pay more for certain assets or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with our acquisition targets. In particular, larger institutions may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to ours, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability may decrease, and you may experience a lower return on your investment. Our failure to identify and consummate suitable acquisitions would significantly impede our growth and our ability to further diversify our portfolio by geography, crop type and tenant, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We do not intend to continuously monitor and evaluate tenant credit quality and our financial performance may be subject to risks associated with our tenants' financial condition and liquidity position. Certain of our leases do not require the full payment of rent in cash in advance of the planting season, which subjects us to credit risk exposure to our farm-operator tenants and the risks associated with farming operations, such as weather, commodity price fluctuations and other factors. We also are exposed to these risks with respect to leases for which the rent is based on a percentage of a tenant's farming revenues and leases with terms greater than one year. Because we do not intend to monitor and evaluate the credit risk exposure related to farm-operator tenants on an ongoing basis, we are subject to the risk that our tenants, particularly those that may depend on debt and leverage to finance their operations, could be susceptible to bankruptcy in the event that their cash flows are insufficient to satisfy their financial obligations, including meeting their obligations to us under their leases. As a result, we may not become aware of a tenant's financial distress 20 Table of Contents until the tenant fails to make payments to us when due, which may significantly reduce the amount of time we have to evict the tenant and re-lease the farmland to a new tenant before the start of the spring planting season, and in the event of a tenant bankruptcy we may not be able to terminate the lease. If we are unable to re-lease the farmland on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Some state laws prohibit or restrict the ownership of agricultural land by business entities, which could impede the growth of our portfolio and our ability to diversify geographically. Certain states, including Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Missouri and Kansas, in which a substantial amount of primary crop farmland is located, have laws that prohibit or restrict to varying degrees the ownership of agricultural land by corporations or business entities like us. As of December 31, 2015, we owned 1,642 acres of farmland in Kansas, and our ownership of those farms may be challenged under Kansas law, in which case we may be required to sell those farms at an unfavorable time and on unfavorable terms. Additional states may, in the future, pass similar or more restrictive laws, and we may not be legally permitted, or it may become overly burdensome or expensive, to acquire properties in these states, which could impede the growth of our portfolio and our ability to diversify geographically in states that might otherwise have attractive investment opportunities. Failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences. At the time of initial public offering in April 2014, substantially all of our farms were located in Illinois and Nebraska, with one farm in Colorado. Since our initial public offering, we have acquired farms in new markets, including Arkansas, South Carolina, Mississippi, Louisiana, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, Texas, and Michigan. We intend to continue to acquire properties in new geographic locations across the U.S., and intend to evaluate potential international acquisitions. When we acquire properties located in new geographic areas in the U.S. or internationally, or properties primarily devoted to a crop or industry with which we are less familiar (such as certain specialty crops, energy production, dairy farms or hog farms), we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local market, including the availability and identity of quality tenants, forging new business relationships in the area, developing an understanding of a crop unfamiliar to us, and unfamiliarity with local or crop-specific government requirements and procedures. Furthermore, the negotiation of a potential expansion into new markets or industries may divert management time and other resources. As a result, we may have difficulties executing our business strategy in these new markets, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid growth and may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to respond to the integration of properties and investments without unanticipated disruption or expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid growth through acquisitions and other investments. It is possible that as our business continues to grow, we will need to continue making significant new investments in personnel and infrastructure to support that growth. We may not be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to manage such acquisitions and investments without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Our failure to successfully manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our short-term leases make us more susceptible to any decreases in prevailing market rental rates than would be the case if we entered into longer-term leases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. All of our leases with tenants engaged in farming operations have terms ranging from one to five years, and we expect that most of the leases we enter into in the future will have one to seven-year terms. As a result, we will be required to frequently re-lease our properties upon the expiration of our leases, which will make us more susceptible to declines in market rental rates than we would be if we were to enter into longer term leases. As a result, any decreases in the prevailing 21 Table of Contents market rental rates in the geographic areas in which we own properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Long-term leases, such as our solar and wind leases, could expose us to various risks, including interest rate risk and the risk of being unable to take advantage of prevailing market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of the date of this Annual Report, we had two leases in place for solar farms and one lease for a wind farm with terms ranging from 20 to 25 years, with potential for extensions. Under the solar and wind leases, the tenants have the ability to use portions of our farms for the production of solar or wind energy rather than for farming operations. We intend to continue to evaluate alternative uses for our farms, and we may enter into additional long-term leases for portions of our farms. Under such long-term leases, the rental rate generally is fixed with periodic rent escalations and, as a result, we are subject to interest rate risk in the event interest rates rise at a greater rate than any potential rent escalations. In addition, by entering into long-term leases, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to increase our rental rates if prevailing land values or rental rates have increased. Any inability to take advantage of increases in prevailing land values or rental rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. The real estate investments made, and to be made, by us may be difficult to sell quickly. As a result, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment generally will occur upon disposition or refinancing of the underlying property. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale, other disposition or refinancing at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located, in each case may limit our ability to dispose of a property. Moreover, our ability to dispose of certain of our properties within a specific time period is subject to certain limitations imposed by our tax protection agreement. In addition, the Code imposes restrictions on a REIT's ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs effectively require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interests. Moreover, if we acquire properties from C corporations (i.e., corporations generally subject to full corporate-level tax) in certain non-taxable transactions, as was the case with our acquisition of the Hudye Farm in 2014, built-in gain recognized on the non-taxable disposition of such properties within 10 years of our acquisition will be subject to tax at the highest applicable U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms. If our properties do not have access to adequate water supplies, it could harm our ability to lease the properties for farming on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our properties and our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Farmland and properties related to farming require access to sufficient water to make the property suitable for farming. Although we expect to acquire properties with sufficient water access, there may be a need to drill additional wells in the future, and we would be required to obtain permits prior to drilling such wells. Permits for drilling water wells are required by state and county regulations, and such permits may be difficult or costly to obtain, particularly in areas where there is a limited supply of water. In addition, there can be no assurance that additional wells will produce sufficient water supplies to support farming operations adequately. Similarly, our properties may be subject to governmental regulations relating to the quality and disposition of rainwater runoff or other water to be used for irrigation, and we could incur costs in order to retain this water and comply with such regulations. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient water supplies for our properties, or the costs incurred to obtain or maintain the water supplies cause the farming operation to be less profitable, 22 Table of Contents we may not be able to lease our properties for farming on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our properties and our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our farms are subject to adverse weather conditions, seasonal variability, crop disease and other contaminants, which may affect our tenants' ability to pay rent and thereby have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Crops are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, tornados, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. Seasonal factors, including supply and consumer demand, may also have an effect on the crops grown by our tenants. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. In addition, crops are vulnerable to crop disease, pests and other contaminants. Damages to tenants' crops from crop disease and pests may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. The costs to control these infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. These infestations can increase the costs and decrease the revenues of our tenants. Tenants may also incur losses from product recalls, fines or litigation due to other contaminants that may cause food borne illness. It is difficult to predict the occurrence or severity of such product recalls, fines or litigation as well as their impact upon our tenants. Although we typically lease our properties on a fixed-rent basis that does not change based on the success of the farming operations, we also utilize variable-rent leases pursuant to which the amount of the rent depends on crop yields and prices in regions where such arrangements are prevalent. In any case, adverse weather conditions, seasonal variability, crop disease, pests and other contaminants could adversely affect our tenants' ability to continue to meet their obligations to us and our ability to lease or re-lease properties on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our properties, our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In the past, the market prices of the crops that our tenants may produce on our agricultural properties have been volatile, which may affect our tenants' ability to pay rent and thereby have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The value of a crop is affected by many factors that can differ on a yearly basis. The unpredictability of weather and crop disease in the major crop production regions worldwide creates a significant risk of price volatility, which may either increase or decrease the value of the crops that our tenants produce each year. Other material factors adding to the volatility of crop prices are changes in government regulations and policy, fluctuations in global prosperity, fluctuations in foreign trade and export markets, and eruptions of military conflicts or civil unrest. Although rental payments under the majority of our leases typically are not based on the quality or profitability of our tenants' harvests, any of these factors could adversely affect our tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us and our ability to lease or re-lease properties on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our properties, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The future effects of climate change could adversely impact the value of our properties and our results of operations. In addition to the general risks that adverse weather conditions pose for the tenants of our properties, the value of our properties and the operations of our tenants may be subject to risks associated with long-term effects of climate change. Many climatologists have predicted that the impacts of climate change could include increases in average temperatures, more extreme temperatures, changes in rainfall patterns, severe droughts, and increases in volatile weather over time. Such effects of climate change could make our properties less profitable for farming or other alternative uses, which could adversely impact the value of our properties, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Adverse changes in government policies related to farming, including decreases in farm subsidies, tax incentives or the percentage of ethanol that must be blended into fuel, could reduce prices of crops and the profitability of farming operations, which could materially and adversely affect the value of our properties and our results of operations. There are a number of government programs that provide subsidies and tax and other incentives to farm operators. Some of these programs have been in operation since the 1930s and were intended to stabilize the income to farm operators and protect them from agricultural setbacks such as wind damage, floods, drought and crop disease. In addition, in recent years both the U.S. federal government and certain state governmental agencies have required that transportation fuel sold in the United States contain a minimum volume of renewable fuel, including ethanol. These renewable fuel requirements have caused ethanol demand to increase substantially, which in turn has had a positive impact on the price of corn and primary crop farmland prices in general. The elimination or reduction of any of these subsidies or other incentives, the widespread use of other forms of renewable fuel or reduction in renewable fuel requirements in the future could reduce the prices of crops and the profitability of farming operations, which could materially and adversely impact the value of our farms and our ability to lease them on favorable terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Acquiring farmland and properties related to farming during periods when such properties are experiencing substantial inflows of capital and intense competition may result in inflated purchase prices and increase the likelihood that our properties will not appreciate in value and may, instead, decrease in value. The allocation of substantial amounts of capital for investment in farmland and farming related properties and significant competition for income-producing real estate may inflate the purchase prices for such assets. If we acquire properties in such an inflated environment, it is possible that the value of our assets may not appreciate and may, instead, decrease in value, perhaps significantly, below the amount we paid for such assets. In addition to macroeconomic and local economic factors, technical factors, such as a decrease in the amount of capital allocated to the purchase of farmland and farming related properties and the number of investors participating in the sector, could cause the value of our assets to decline. Investments in farmland used for permanent crops have a higher risk profile than farmland used for annual row crops. As of the date of this Annual Report, two of our farms are used for permanent crops, and, in the future, we may add to our investments in farmland used for permanent crops, as opposed to annual row crops. Permanent crops have plant structures (such as trees, vines or bushes) that produce yearly crops without being replanted. Examples include blueberries, oranges, apples, almonds and grapes. Permanent crops involve more risk than annual row crops because permanent crops require more time and capital to plant and bear fruit, are more expensive to replace and are more susceptible to disease and poor weather. If a farmer loses a permanent crop to drought, flooding, fire or disease, there generally would be significant time and capital needed to return the land to production because a tree or vine may take years to grow before bearing fruit. Permanent crop farmland also prevents the farmer from being able to rotate crop types to keep up with changing market conditions or changes to the weather or soil. If demand for one type of permanent crop decreases, the permanent crop farmer cannot easily convert the farm to another type of crop because permanent crop farmland is dedicated to one crop during the lifespan of the trees or vines and therefore cannot easily be rotated to adapt to changing environmental or market conditions. In addition, permanent crops, which can generally endure long periods of time from harvest to consumption, allow for global shipment and trade. As a result, permanent crops are usually less insulated from the global market volatility than annual row crops. This will generally provide for less price stability of the harvested crop and therefore less stability of the underlying land value for cropland producing permanent crops. As a result, permanent crop farms have a higher risk profile than annual row crop farms. If consumer demand for the permanent specialty crops grown on our farms decreases, the underlying values of our permanent specialty crop farms may decrease and our tenants may not be able to pay their rents as they come due. 24 Table of Contents We currently own two permanent specialty crop farms, and in the future we intend for our portfolio to consist of approximately 20% specialty crop farms (as significant portion of which is expected to consist of annual specialty crops, where this risk does not apply). If consumer demand for the permanent specialty crops grown on our farms decreases, the underlying value of those permanent specialty crop farms could also decrease. Additionally, to the extent we do not require upfront rent payments from tenants on our permanent specialty crop farms, upon a drop in permanent specialty crop prices, our tenants may not be able to make their rent payments as they come due. If the U.S. Federal Reserve or other central banks embark on a substantial tightening of monetary policy in the future that causes real interest rates to rise substantially, it may cause land prices to decline if the rise in real interest rates is not accompanied by rises in the general levels of inflation. A substantial tightening of monetary policy by the U.S. Federal Reserve or other central banks would increase credit costs (through the resulting increase in interest rates) and decrease credit availability. This could hurt farm operators because higher real interest rates make it more difficult for farm operators to qualify for loans and increase their borrowing costs. Higher interest rates also tend to decrease U.S. and world economic growth, thus decreasing the demand for agricultural commodities. All of these consequences could reduce farm income. If increases in real interest rates (which is defined as nominal interest rates minus the inflation rate) are not accompanied by higher levels of farm income and rents, this could lead to declines in agricultural land values and a reduction in our profitability, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The loss of key management personnel, particularly Paul A. Pittman and Luca Fabbri, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, which is comprised of Paul A. Pittman, our Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Luca Fabbri, our Chief Financial Officer. We can provide no assurances that any of our key personnel will continue their employment with us. The loss of services of Messrs. Pittman and Fabbri could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives. We have limited operating history as a REIT and a publicly traded company, and we cannot assure that the past experience of our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a REIT or a publicly traded company. We have limited operating history as a REIT and a publicly traded company. We cannot assure you that the past experience of our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a REIT or a publicly traded company, including the requirements to timely meet the disclosure requirements of the SEC. We are required to develop and implement control systems and procedures in order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT, satisfy our periodic and current reporting requirements under applicable SEC regulations and comply with the NYSE listing standards, and this transition could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our failure to operate successfully as a public company or to maintain our qualification as a REIT could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. See "—U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks—Failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject us to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders." We have incurred and will continue to incur new costs as a result of being a public company, and such costs may increase if and when we cease to be an "emerging growth company," which could adversely impact our results of operations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and 25 Table of Contents other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased demand on our systems and resources. As a result, our executive officers' attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect compliance with these public reporting requirements and associated rules and regulations to increase expenses, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2019, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, which could result in our incurring additional costs applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of our executive officers' time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. After we are no longer an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our auditors to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging. We cannot give any assurances that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The existence of any material weakness would preclude a conclusion by management and our independent auditors that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weakness in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in the per-share trading price of our common stock We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to, among other things, acquire additional properties, meet our capital and operating needs or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code to, among other things, distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including acquisition opportunities and principal and interest payments on any outstanding debt, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources to fund our 26 Table of Contents capital needs. We may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Any debt we incur will increase our leverage, expose us to the risk of default and may impose operating restrictions on us, and any additional equity we raise (including the issuance of OP units) could be dilutive to existing stockholders. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: · general market conditions; · the market's view of the quality of our assets; · the market's perception of our growth potential; · our debt levels; · our current and expected future earnings; · our cash flow and cash distributions; and · the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. Under the FPI Loan Program, we provide loans to third-party farmers, which exposes us to risks associated with being a lender, including the risk that borrowers default on their obligations to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under the FPI Loan Program, which was announced in August 2015, we make loans to third-party farmers (both tenant and non-tenant) to provide partial financing for working capital requirements and operational farming activities, farming infrastructure projects, and for other farming and agricultural real estate related purposes. The loans are expected to be collateralized by farm real estate. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have made two senior secured first-lien mortgage loans to farmers totaling $2,980,000, with $2,780,000 outstanding at December 31, 2015, under the FPI Loan Program, and we intend to make similar loans in the future. Payments on such loans depend on the profitable operation or management of the farmland or farmland-related property securing the loan. The success of the farmland or farm-related property may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations). In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If a borrower defaults under a mortgage loan for which we are the lender, we may attempt to foreclose on the collateral securing the loan, including by acquiring title to the subject property, to protect our investment. In response, the defaulting borrower may contest our enforcement of foreclosure or other available remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other available remedies, or bring claims against us for lender liability. If a defaulting borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other available remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court with jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In addition, we may be subject to intercreditor agreements that delay, impact, govern or limit our ability to foreclose on a lien securing a loan or otherwise delay or limit our pursuit of our rights and remedies. Any such delay or limit on our ability to pursue our rights or remedies could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying farm. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loans, foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in property values could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our mortgage loans, and we could be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. 27 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation or threatened litigation, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. We may be subject to litigation or threatened litigation, including claims relating to the actions of our tenants and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. In particular, we are subject to the risk of complaints by our tenants involving premises liability claims and alleged violations of landlord-tenant laws, which may give rise to litigation or governmental investigations, as well as claims and litigation relating to real estate rights or uses of our properties. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. Additionally, whether or not any dispute actually proceeds to litigation, we may be required to devote significant management time and attention to its successful resolution (through litigation, settlement or otherwise), which would detract from our management's ability to focus on our business. Any such resolution could involve the payment of damages or expenses by us, which may be significant, or involve our agreement with terms that restrict the operation of our business. We generally intend to vigorously defend ourselves; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of those claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby having an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions on, and the per share trading price of, our common stock. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage and could expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay distributions on, and the value of, our common stock. Liability for uninsured or underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. Our properties may be damaged by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and tornados. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all damages or losses from these events, or we may view it as not economically prudent to purchase insurance for certain types of losses. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose our capital investment or anticipated profits and cash flows from one or more properties. If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow. Potential liability for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws applicable to agricultural properties, including those related to wetlands, groundwater and water runoff. Some of these laws could subject us to: · responsibility and liability for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our properties, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants; · liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or chemical releases at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of these substances; and · potential liability for claims by third parties for damages resulting from environmental contaminants. Environmental site assessments were not conducted on the farms in our portfolio and we do not expect to conduct environment site assessments on farms we acquire in the future. Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous substances may be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. We may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Additionally, we could become subject to new, stricter environmental regulations, which could diminish the utility of our properties and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may be required to permit the owners of the mineral rights on our properties to enter and occupy parts of the properties for the purposes of drilling and operating oil or gas wells, which could adversely impact the rental value of our properties. Although we own the surface rights to our farms and expect to own the surface rights to properties that we acquire, other persons may own the rights to any minerals, such as oil and natural gas, that may be located under the surfaces of these properties. For example, in connection with our acquisition of the Hudye Farm, we granted the seller 50% of the mineral rights related to the farm. Currently there is no mineral development on the farms in our portfolio, but we can provide no assurances that third parties will not assert claims for mineral rights on the farms in our portfolio or that farmland that we acquire in the future will not be subject to third-party mineral rights. To the extent that third parties have mineral rights on farmland that we currently own or acquire in the future, we expect that we would be required to permit third parties to enter our properties for the purpose of drilling and operating oil or gas wells on the premises. We will also be required to set aside a reasonable portion of the surface area of our properties to accommodate these oil and gas operations. The devotion of a portion of our properties to these oil and gas operations would reduce the amount of the surface available for farming or farm-related uses. Such activities might also disrupt the productivity of the farmland or property related to farming or increase the risk of environmental liabilities, any of which could adversely impact the rents that we receive from leasing these properties. Increases in mortgage rates or unavailability of mortgage debt may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, growth prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. If mortgage debt is unavailable to us at reasonable rates or at all, we may not be able to finance the purchase of additional properties or refinance existing debt when it becomes due. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our debt, our income and cash flow could be reduced, which would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. In addition, to the extent we are unable to refinance our debt when it becomes due, we will have fewer debt guarantee opportunities available to offer under our tax protection agreement, which could trigger an obligation to indemnify certain parties under the tax protection agreement. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property or group of properties subject to mortgage debt. As of December 31, 2015 and March 10, 2016, we had approximately $187.2 million and $237.2 million, respectively, of outstanding mortgage indebtedness. We intend to finance future property acquisitions, in part, with mortgage indebtedness. Mortgage and other secured debt obligations increase our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. Any foreclosure on a mortgaged property or group of properties could adversely affect the overall value of our portfolio of properties. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties that is subject to a nonrecourse mortgage loan would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. Foreclosures could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under the terms of our tax protection agreement with respect to the sales of certain properties. Our debt financing agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain business activities, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures and make certain investments. Our existing debt financing agreements contain, and other debt financing agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: · restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; 29 Table of Contents · restrict our ability to incur additional liens; · restrict our ability to make certain investments (including certain capital expenditures); · restrict our ability to merge with another company; · restrict our ability to sell or dispose of assets; · restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders; and · require us to satisfy minimum financial coverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements and maximum leverage ratios. In addition, the agreements related to our $53.0 million bridge loan prohibit us during the term of the loan from (i) incurring additional indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions (including indebtedness of up to $6.0 million for property acquisitions) and (ii) making investments in excess of $10.0 million in the aggregate without the prior written consent of the lender, subject to certain limited exceptions. These limitations restrict our ability to engage in certain business activities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution and our ability to service our debt obligations. In addition, a violation of these covenants, after any applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, accelerate payment of all amounts outstanding under the loans and to exercise their remedies with respect to the collateral, including foreclosure and sale of the agricultural real estate securing the loans. We may be unable to collect balances due on our leases from any tenants in bankruptcy, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to tenant credit risk. Our tenants, particularly those that may depend on debt and leverage, could be susceptible to bankruptcy in the event that their cash flows are insufficient to satisfy their financial obligations, including meeting their obligations to us under their leases. A tenant in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rent and interest during the bankruptcy proceeding and may reject the lease. If a bankrupt tenant rejects a lease with us, any claim we might have for breach of the lease, excluding a claim against collateral securing the lease, would be treated as a general unsecured claim. Our claim would likely be capped at the amount the tenant owed us for unpaid rent prior to the bankruptcy unrelated to the termination, plus the greater of one year of lease payments or 15% of the remaining lease payments payable under the lease, but in no case more than three years of lease payments. In addition, a tenant may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, will generally be more limited. In the event of a tenant bankruptcy, we may also be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant. In the event of the tenant's breach of its obligations to us or its rejection of the lease in bankruptcy proceedings, we may be unable to locate a replacement tenant in a timely manner or on comparable or better terms. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected if a tenant declares bankruptcy. If our tenants fail to comply with applicable labor regulations, it could have an adverse effect on our tenants' ability to make rental payments to us and, in turn, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. State, county and federal governments have implemented a number of regulations governing labor practices used in connection with farming operations. For example, these regulations seek to provide for minimum wages and minimum and maximum work hours, as well as to restrict the hiring of illegal immigrants. If one of our tenants is accused of violating, or found to have violated such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on the tenant's results of operations, which could adversely affect its ability to make its rental payments to us and, in turn, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The inability to execute our business plan of continuously leasing our properties on favorable economic and other terms would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to identify suitable third-party tenants or negotiate acceptable lease terms for properties we acquire in the future or upon expiration of existing leases. In some instances, we may not be able to negotiate for the full payment of rent in advance of each spring planting season, which could increase 30 Table of Contents our exposure to credit risk of our farm-operator tenants and the risks associated with farming operations, such as weather, commodity price fluctuations and other factors described above under "—Our business is dependent in part upon the profitability of our tenants' farming operations, and any downturn in the profitability of their farming operations could have a material adverse effect on the amount of rent we can collect and, consequently, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders." Even for our leases that require payment of all or a substantial portion of annual rent in advance of each spring planting season, in the event of a default by the tenant in payment of the annual rent when due, there can be no assurance that we would be able to timely locate a new tenant and obtain acceptable lease terms before the spring planting season, in which event our lease revenue from any affected property would likely be substantially decreased. We engage in farming operations on certain of our farms through our taxable REIT subsidiary instead of leasing such farms to third-party tenants. Any sustained downturn in the profitability of our farming operations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We engage in farming operations through our taxable REIT subsidiary on certain of our farms. The profitability of our custom farming operations could be adversely impacted by, among other things, adverse weather conditions, crop prices, crop disease, pests, contaminants, and unfavorable or uncertain political, economic, business or regulatory conditions. Unlike the majority of our third-party leases, which require 100% of the annual rent to be paid in advance of each spring planting season, we are fully dependent on the success of our farming operations on the custom farm properties to produce revenue from those properties. If our custom farming operations become less profitable there is no guarantee that we will be able to lease the farms to third parties on economically beneficial terms. As a result, any downturn in the profitability of our custom farming operations or a downturn in the farming industry as a whole could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For more information about the risks related to farming operations generally see “—Our business is dependent in part upon the profitability of our tenants' farming operations, and any sustained downturn in the profitability of their farming operations could have a material adverse effect on the amount of rent we can collect and, consequently, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.” Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to acquired properties and properties that we may acquire in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Properties that we have acquired, and properties that we may acquire in the future, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements related to the purchase of properties that we acquire may not survive the completion of the transactions. Furthermore, indemnification under such agreements may be limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with these properties may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may materially and adversely affect us. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of units in our operating partnership, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any partner thereof. As of the date of this Annual Report, Mr. Pittman owned 7.8% of the OP units in our operating partnership. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, our wholly owned subsidiary, Farmland Partners OP GP, LLC, as the general partner of our operating partnership, has fiduciary duties and obligations to our operating partnership and its limited partners under 31 Table of Contents Delaware law and the partnership agreement in connection with the management of our operating partnership. The general partner's fiduciary duties and obligations as the general partner of our operating partnership may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company. These conflicts of interest could lead to decisions that are not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Unless otherwise provided for in a partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. The partnership agreement provides that, in the event of a conflict between the interests of the limited partners of our operating partnership, on the one hand, and the separate interests of our stockholders, on the other hand, the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of our operating partnership, shall act in the interests of our stockholders and is under no obligation to consider the separate interests of the limited partners of our operating partnership in deciding whether to cause our operating partnership to take or not to take any actions. The partnership agreement further provides that any decisions or actions not taken by the general partner in accordance with the partnership agreement will not violate any duties, including the duty of loyalty, that the general partner, in its capacity as the general partner of our operating partnership, owes to our operating partnership and its partners. Additionally, the partnership agreement provides that the general partner will not be liable to our operating partnership or any partner for monetary damages for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived by our operating partnership or any limited partner unless the general partner acted in bad faith and the act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the loss, liability or benefit not derived. Our operating partnership must indemnify the general partner, us, our directors and officers, officers of our operating partnership and others designated by the general partner from and against any and all claims that relate to the operations of our operating partnership, unless (1) an act or omission of the indemnified person was material to the matter giving rise to the action and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) the indemnified person actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. Our operating partnership must also pay or reimburse the reasonable expenses of any such person upon its receipt of a written affirmation of the person's good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification has been met and a written undertaking to repay any amounts paid or advanced if it is ultimately determined that the person did not meet the standard of conduct for indemnification. Our operating partnership will not indemnify or advance funds to any person with respect to any action initiated by the person seeking indemnification without our approval (except for any proceeding brought to enforce such person's right to indemnification under the partnership agreement) or if the person is found to be liable to our operating partnership on any portion of any claim in the action. No reported decision of a Delaware appellate court has interpreted provisions similar to the provisions of the partnership agreement that modify and reduce our fiduciary duties or obligations as the sole member of the general partner or reduce or eliminate our liability for money damages to our operating partnership and its partners, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel as to the enforceability of the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to modify or reduce the fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for the partnership agreement. Our charter contains certain provisions restricting the ownership and transfer of our stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. Our charter contains certain ownership limits with respect to our stock. Our charter, among other restrictions, prohibits the beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock, excluding any shares that are not treated as outstanding for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our Board of Directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may exempt a person, prospectively or retroactively, from this ownership limit if certain conditions are satisfied. This ownership limit as well as other restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock in our charter may: · discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in management or of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests; and 32 Table of Contents · result in the transfer of shares acquired in excess of the restrictions to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, as a result, the forfeiture by the acquirer of certain of the benefits of owning the additional shares. If we do not obtain stockholder approval for the issuance of shares upon redemption of 1,097,506 OP units and 117,000 Preferred Units issued in connection with two acquisitions, we may be required to redeem the OP units for cash, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if we do not have sufficient cash on hand at the time such OP units are tendered for redemption, we may be required to sell additional shares of our common stock in order to have sufficient cash to satisfy the redemption, which may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Section 312.03(c) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires stockholder approval prior to any issuance or sale of common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, in any transaction or series of transactions, if the common stock issued or issuable equals or exceeds 20% of the number of shares of common stock or of the voting power outstanding prior to the issuance. Under the Partnership Agreement, one year after issuance, OP units generally may be tendered for redemption by the holder for cash, or at our option shares of our common stock. However, for purposes of complying with Section 312.03(c) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, we issued an aggregate of 1,097,506 OP units as partial consideration for the acquisition of the Justice and Forsythe farms, which may be redeemed only for cash. Additionally, we issued 117,000 Preferred Units as partial consideration for the Forsythe farms, which by their terms may be converted to common OP units within ten-years of issuance or upon certain extraordinary transactions. Any common OP units issuable to upon conversion of the Preferred Units will be redeemable for cash only until stockholder approval is obtained allowing for the redemption of such OP units for shares of common stock in excess of the limits prescribed by the NYSE. Redeeming such OP units for cash could reduce the amount of cash we have available for distributions to stockholders. Further, if we do not have sufficient cash on hand at the time the OP units are tendered for redemption, we may be forced to sell additional shares of our common stock in order to raise cash, which could cause dilution to our existing stockholders and adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock, classify and reclassify unissued stock and issue stock without stockholder approval, which may delay, defer or prevent a transaction that our stockholders believe to be in their best interests. Our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, has the power under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we are authorized to issue. In addition, under our charter, our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, has the power to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock into one or more classes or series of stock and set the preference, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption for such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common stock. Although our Board of Directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under certain circumstances that otherwise 33 Table of Contents could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: · "business combination" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an "interested stockholder" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter impose fair price and/or supermajority voting requirements on these combinations; and · "control share" provisions that provide that "control shares" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a "control share acquisition" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding "control shares") have no voting rights with respect to their control shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. By resolution of our Board of Directors, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and provided that any business combination between us and any other person is exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, provided that the business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors (including a majority of directors who are not affiliates or associates of such persons). In addition, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our Board of Directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Additionally, certain provisions of the MGCL permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or our bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not currently employ. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our charter contains a provision whereby we elect to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our Board of Directors. Our charter, our bylaws and Maryland law also contain other provisions, including the provisions of our charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws, that may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement may delay, or make more difficult, unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some of our stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: · redemption rights; · a requirement that the general partner may not be removed as the general partner of our operating partnership without our consent; · transfer restrictions on OP units; 34 Table of Contents · our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement and to cause our operating partnership to issue units with terms that could delay, defer or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or our operating partnership without the consent of the limited partners; and · the right of the limited partners to consent to direct or indirect transfers of the general partnership interest, including as a result of a merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, in the event that such transfer requires approval by our common stockholders. As of the date of this Annual Report, Mr. Pittman owned approximately 7.8% of the outstanding OP units in our operating partnership. Mr. Pittman, our Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer has outside business interests that may present financial conflicts with us and may adversely affect our business. Mr. Pittman, our Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, retains direct or indirect ownership interests in certain farms in Illinois (consisting of 2,808 total acres) and certain farms in Nebraska (consisting of 792 total acres) that were not acquired by us in the formation transactions related to our initial public offering, due to his family’s long-term ownership of those farms and the high proportion of non-tillable acreage of those farms, including pasture land, livestock facilities and land devoted to recreational activities. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a policy, pursuant to which Mr. Pittman and his affiliates have a right to acquire farmland in a total of 15 townships located within Fulton County or Schuyler County in Illinois or Butler County in Nebraska, which are the counties in which the two homestead farms are located, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5.0 million annually. Some of the farms in our portfolio are located in townships in which Mr. Pittman and entities controlled by Mr. Pittman will be permitted to acquire farms pursuant to this policy. The leases with our former related tenants were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis and we may not be able to renew those leases on similar terms or at all now that those tenants are with unaffiliated third parties. As of the date of this Annual Report, 7.8% of the total acres in our portfolio (representing approximately 12.75% of our total 2016 contractual rent) are leased to either Astoria Farms or Hough Farms, our former related tenants. At the time the leases with our related tenants were negotiated Mr. Pittman had a 28.3% indirect partnership interest in, and controlled, Astoria Farms, and had an 18.75% indirect partnership interest in Hough Farms. Mr. Hough had a 4.3% indirect partnership interest in Astoria Farms and a 28.3% indirect partnership interest in Hough Farms. Mr. Hough manages the farming operations of both of our former related tenants. As such, the leases between us and our former related tenants, which have terms that range from one to three years, were negotiated between related parties and their terms, including rent payable to us may have been different if they were negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. On March 11, 2016, Mr. Pittman and Jesse J. Hough (on behalf of himself and certain other entities he controls) entered into an agreement pursuant to which, effective December 31, 2015, Mr. Pittman ceased to hold any direct or indirect interests in, or have control of, Astoria Farms, Hough Farms and American Agriculture Corporation. Our tax protection agreement could limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties. In connection with the formation transactions related to our initial public offering, our operating partnership entered into a tax protection agreement that provides that if we dispose of any interest in the protected initial properties in a taxable transaction prior to the fifth (with respect to certain properties) or seventh (with respect to certain other properties) anniversary of the completion of the formation transactions, subject to certain exceptions and unless such obligation terminates sooner under the agreement, we will indemnify Pittman Hough Farms for its tax liabilities attributable to the built-in gain that exists with respect to such property interests as of the time of our initial public offering, and the tax liabilities incurred as a result of such tax protection payment. We also have agreed to use our best efforts to continue to comply with such obligations with respect to those properties subject to the seven-year protection period after the expiration of such period (unless such obligation otherwise was terminated under the agreement). In addition, we may enter into similar tax protection agreements in the future if we issue OP units in connection with the acquisition of properties. Therefore, although it may be in our stockholders' best interests that we sell one of these properties, it may be 35 Table of Contents economically prohibitive for us to do so because of these obligations. Furthermore, for the protected initial properties that have an initial seven-year tax protection period, our best efforts obligation to Pittman Hough Farms significantly limits our ability to dispose of those properties after the initial seven-year tax protection period without payment of the tax indemnification amount to Pittman Hough Farms. Our tax protection agreement may require our operating partnership to maintain certain debt levels that otherwise would not be required to operate our business. Under our tax protection agreement, our operating partnership is required to provide Pittman Hough Farms the opportunity to guarantee debt or enter into deficit restoration obligations at both the consummation of the formation transactions related to our initial public offering and the completion of this offering (if needed) and upon a future repayment, retirement, refinancing or other reduction (other than scheduled amortization) of currently outstanding debt prior to the seventh anniversary of the completion of the formation transactions unless such obligation terminates sooner under the agreement. We also have agreed to use our best efforts to continue to provide such opportunities after the expiration of such seven-year period (unless such obligation otherwise was terminated under the agreement). If we fail to make such opportunities available, we will be required to deliver to Pittman Hough Farms a cash payment intended to approximate its tax liability resulting from our failure to make such opportunities available to Pittman Hough Farms and the tax liabilities incurred as a result of such tax protection payment. We agreed to these provisions in order to assist the members of Pittman Hough Farms in deferring the recognition of taxable gain as a result of and after the formation transactions, and we may agree to similar provisions in the future if we issue OP units in connection with the acquisition of properties. These obligations may require us to maintain more or different indebtedness than we would otherwise require for our business. Our Board of Directors may change our strategies, policies and procedures without stockholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our investment, financing, leverage and distribution policies, and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, capitalization and operations, are determined exclusively by our Board of Directors, and may be amended or revised at any time by our Board of Directors without notice to or a vote of our stockholders. This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different business or growth strategies than those contemplated in this Annual Report. Further, our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Directors may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without stockholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged which could result in an increase in our debt service. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Changes to our policies with regards to the foregoing could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event that we take certain actions which are not in our stockholders' best interests. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner that he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Under the MGCL, directors are presumed to have acted with this standard of care. As permitted by Maryland law, our charter eliminates the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: · actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or · active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. 36 Table of Contents Our charter and bylaws obligate us to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We also have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors granting them express indemnification rights. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist for other public companies. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our senior management and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our senior management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Our operating partnership may issue additional OP units to third parties without the consent of our stockholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and could have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. As of the date of this Annual Report, we owned approximately 64% of the outstanding OP units in our operating partnership (on a fully diluted basis). Since our initial public offering, we have issued a total of 4,840,991 OP units as consideration in connection with our acquisition of properties, and we may issue additional OP units in connection with our acquisition of properties, as compensation or otherwise. Such issuances would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and could affect the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. Our common stockholders do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of our operating partnership. U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to maintain qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject us to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2014. To maintain qualification as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. We believe that our current organization and method of operation will enable us to continue to qualify, as a REIT. However, at any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the U.S. federal tax laws relating to, or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to determine that it is not in our best interest to qualify as a REIT and to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions would no longer 37 Table of Contents qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to you. To qualify as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets to make distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income, (2) 95% of our capital gain net income and (3) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes. Future sales of properties may result in penalty taxes or may be made through TRSs, each of which would diminish the return to you. It is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be "prohibited transactions" under provisions of the Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a "prohibited transaction" (i.e., we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax. A principal requirement of the safe harbor is that the REIT must hold the applicable property for not less than two years prior to its sale for the production of rental income. It is entirely possible that a future sale of one or more of our properties will not fall within the prohibited transaction safe harbor. If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may contribute the property to a TRS. Though a sale of such property by a TRS likely would mitigate the risk of incurring a 100% penalty tax, the TRS itself would be subject to regular corporate income tax at the U.S. federal level, and potentially at the state and local levels, on the gain recognized on the sale of the property as well as any income earned while the property is operated by the TRS. Such tax would diminish the amount of proceeds from the sale of such property ultimately distributable to you. Our ability to use TRSs in the foregoing manner is subject to limitation. Among other things, the value of our securities in TRSs may not exceed 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our assets and dividends from our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, generally may not exceed 25% of our gross income with respect to such year. No assurances can be provided that we would be able to successfully avoid the 100% penalty tax through the use of TRSs. In addition, if we acquire any asset from a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate-level tax) in a merger or other transaction in which we acquire a basis in the asset determined by reference either to the C corporation's basis in the asset or to another asset, we will pay tax, at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, on any built-in gain recognized on a taxable disposition of the asset during the 5-year period after its acquisition. As a result of the manner in which we acquired the Hudye Farm, a subsequent taxable disposition by us of any such assets generally would be subject to the foregoing built-in gain rules. 38 Table of Contents In certain circumstances, we may be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes or state taxes. As discussed above, net income from a "prohibited transaction" will be subject to a 100% penalty tax and built-in gain recognized on the taxable disposition of assets acquired from C corporations in certain non-taxable transactions will be subject to tax at the highest applicable U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. To the extent we satisfy the distribution requirements applicable to REITs, but distribute less than 100% or our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on our undistributed income. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain capital gains we earn from the sale or other disposition of our properties and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, our stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any U.S. federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The ability of our Board of Directors to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. If our operating partnership were classified as a "publicly traded partnership" taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and would suffer other adverse tax consequences. We intend for our operating partnership to be treated as a "partnership" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert our operating partnership was “publicly traded,” our operating partnership could be taxable as a corporation if less than 90% of its gross income consisted of certain qualifying passive income. In such event, we likely would fail to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the resulting corporate income tax burden would reduce the amount of distributions that our operating partnership could make to us. This would substantially reduce the cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or sell properties earlier than we wish. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of shares of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to forego or liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to comply with the REIT tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock. Certain provisions of the Code and the stock ownership limits in our charter may inhibit market activity in our capital stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. 39 Table of Contents Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our Board of Directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Our Board of Directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of such ownership limit would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for the favorable tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income paid to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates currently is 20%. Dividends paid by REITs generally are not eligible for such maximum tax rate. Although the favorable tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, such favorable tax rates could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Legislative or regulatory action with respect to taxes could adversely affect the returns to our stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our stock or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your investment in our stock and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock We may be unable to make distributions at expected levels, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our stockholders. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. If sufficient cash is not available for distribution from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital, borrow to provide funds for such distributions, or reduce the amount of such distributions. To the extent we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. If cash available for distribution generated by our assets is less than our current estimate, or if such cash available for distribution decreases in future periods from expected levels, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We are an "emerging growth company," and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make shares of our common stock less attractive to investors. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for "emerging growth companies," including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be until December 31, 2019, we may take advantage of exemptions from 40 Table of Contents various reporting and other requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the requirements to: · provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; · comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies; · comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; · comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012, unless the SEC determines otherwise; · provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or · hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation. We cannot predict if investors will find shares of our common stock less attractive because we will not be subject to the same reporting and other requirements as other public companies. If some investors find shares of our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and the per share trading price of our common stock could decline and may be more volatile. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be highly volatile and low, respectively. The stock markets, including the NYSE, on which our common stock is listed, historically have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this "Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report and others such as: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations or dividends; · changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; · changes in government regulations or policies affecting our business or the farming business; · publication of research reports about us or the real estate or farming industries; · sustained decreases in agricultural commodity and crop prices; · increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; 41 Table of Contents · actions by institutional stockholders; · speculation in the press or investment community; · the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report; · the extent of investor interest in our securities; · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; · our underlying asset value; · investor confidence in the stock and bond markets generally; · changes in tax laws; · future equity issuances; · failure to meet earnings estimates; · failure to meet and maintain REIT qualifications and requirements; · low trading volume of our stock; and · general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the per share trading price of our common stock. The number of shares of our common stock available for future issuance or sale may have adverse effects on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 12 million shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of the date of this Annual Report, other than the OP units held by us, approximately 4.2 million OP units in our operating partnership were outstanding, 1,945,000 of which currently may be tendered for redemption by the holders, for cash, or at our option, for shares of our common stock, on a one-for-one basis. We have registered the issuance of 1,945,000 of the shares issuable upon redemption of OP units, and we intend to register the issuance of additional shares that may be issued upon redemption of OP units so that such shares will be freely tradable under the securities laws. We cannot predict whether future issuances or sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the per share trading price per share of our common stock. The per share trading price of our common stock may decline significantly when we register the shares of our common stock issuable upon redemption of outstanding OP units. 42 Table of Contents Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, and OP units in connection with future acquisitions may materially adversely affect us, including the per share trading price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities (or causing our operating partnership to issue debt securities), including medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes or series of preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will be entitled to receive payments prior to distributions to the holders of our common stock. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk that our future offerings could reduce the per share trading price of our common stock and dilute their interest in us. In addition, the issuance of OP units in connection with future acquisitions and the redemption of such OP units for common stock may be dilutive to our stockholders and could have an adverse effect on the per share trading price of our common stock. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our distribution yield, which is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution yield on our common stock or may seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions are likely to affect the market price of our common stock, and such effects could be significant. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 