Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and all other information contained in this report should be considered carefully when evaluating us. These risk factors could affect our actual results. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are 24 Table of Contents described below, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely. In that case, we may be unable to pay distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning us set forth in our accompanying financial statements and notes and contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included herein. Risks Related to the Company Our cash flow consists almost exclusively of distributions from EnLink Midstream Partners, LP and EnLink Midstream Holdings, LP. Currently, our only cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in EnLink Midstream Partners, LP and EnLink Midstream Holdings, LP, although we expect our E2 investments to begin to generate cash flow for distribution as its plants commence operations during 2014. Our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of the Partnership and Midstream Holdings to make distributions to their partners. Accordingly, you should read and consider the risk factors described under the caption “—Risks Inherent in the Midstream Entities’ Business.” The amount of cash that the Partnership and Midstream Holdings can distribute to their partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from their operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of natural gas transported in their gathering and transmission pipelines; · the level of the Midstream Entities’ processing operations; · the fees the Midstream Entities’ charge and the margins they realizes for their services; · the prices of, levels of production of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the volume of natural gas the Midstream Entities gather, compress, process, transport and sell, the volume of NGLs the Midstream Entities process or fractionate and sell, the volume of crude oil the Midstream Entities handle at their crude terminals, the volume of crude oil and condensate the Midstream Entities gather, transport, purchase and sell and the volumes of brine the Partnership disposes; · the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and · the Midstream Entities’ level of operating costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash the Partnership and Midstream Holdings will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond their control, including: · the level of capital expenditures the Midstream Entities make; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · the Partnership’s debt service requirements; · fluctuations in their working capital needs; · the Partnership’s ability to make working capital borrowings under its bank credit facility to pay distributions; · prevailing economic conditions; and · the amount of cash reserves established by their respective general partners in their sole discretion for the proper conduct of business. Because of these factors, the Partnership and Midstream Holdings may not be able, or may not have sufficient available cash to pay distributions to unitholders each quarter. Furthermore, you should also be aware that the amount of cash the Partnership and Midstream Holdings have available for distribution depends primarily upon their cash flows, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, the Partnership and Midstream Holdings may make cash distributions during periods when they record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. Although we control the Partnership, the general partner owes fiduciary duties to the Partnership and the unitholders. 25 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us and our affiliates, including the General Partner, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of EnLink Midstream GP, LLC have fiduciary duties to manage the General Partner in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, the General Partner has a fiduciary duty to manage the Partnership in a manner beneficial to the Partnership and its limited partners. The board of directors of EnLink Midstream GP, LLC will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: · the allocation of shared overhead expenses to the Partnership and us; · the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership, on the other hand; · the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to the Partnership’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of the Partnership’s business; · the determination whether to make borrowings under the Partnership’s existing credit facility to pay distributions to partners; and · any decision we make in the future to engage in activities in competition with the Partnership. If the General Partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, its value, and therefore the value of our common units, could decline. The General Partner may make expenditures on behalf of the Partnership for which it will seek reimbursement from the Partnership. In addition, under Delaware law, the General Partner, in its capacity as the General Partner of the Partnership, has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the General Partner. To the extent the General Partner incurs obligations on behalf of the Partnership, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the Partnership. In the event that the Partnership is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the General Partner, the General Partner may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of our common units. If in the future we cease to manage and control the Partnership, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control the Partnership and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contractual rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and adversely affect the price of our common units. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement contains, and any future indebtedness we incur will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interest. In addition, our credit facility requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the credit facility could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If we are unable to repay the accelerated debt under our credit facility, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged the Partnership common units and the 100% membership interest in the General Partner that are indirectly held by us, along with our 100% equity interest in each of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and our 50% limited partner interest in Midstream Holdings as collateral under our credit facility. If indebtedness under our credit facility is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Certain events of default under the Partnership’s credit facility, the occurrence of certain bankruptcy events affecting the Midstream Entities or our failure to continue to control the Partnership and Midstream Holdings could constitute an event of default under our credit facility. Under the terms of our credit facility, certain events of default under the Partnership’s credit facility could constitute an event of default under our credit facility. Additionally, certain events of default under our credit facility relate specifically to events relating to the Midstream Entities, including certain bankruptcy events affecting the Midstream Entities or any event that causes us to no longer indirectly control the Partnership or Midstream Holdings. Additionally, any default by the Partnership under the terms of its credit facility could limit its ability to make distributions to us. 26 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in the Midstream Entities’ Business Midstream Holdings is dependent on Devon for substantially all of the natural gas that it gathers, processes and transports. After the expiration of the five-year minimum volume commitments from Devon, a material decline in the volumes of natural gas that Midstream Holdings gathers, processes and transports for Devon could result in a material decline in the Midstream Entities’ operating results and cash available for distribution. Midstream Holdings relies on Devon for substantially all of its natural gas supply. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Devon represented 24.9% of our consolidated revenues, on a pro forma basis. In order to minimize volumetric exposure, Midstream Holdings has received five-year minimum volume commitments from Devon at the Bridgeport processing facility, Bridgeport and East Johnson County gathering systems and the Cana and Northridge systems. After the expiration of these five-year minimum volume commitments, a material decline in the volume of natural gas that Midstream Holdings gathers and transports on its systems would result in a material decline in our combined total operating revenues and cash flow. In addition, Devon may determine in the future that drilling activity in areas of operation other than Midstream Holdings’ is strategically more attractive. A shift in Devon’s focus away from Midstream Holdings’ areas of operation could result in reduced throughput on Midstream Holdings’ systems after the five-year minimum volume commitments expire and cause a material decline in our total operating revenues and cash flow. Because the Midstream Entities are substantially dependent on Devon as their primary customer and through Devon’s control of us and our control of the Partnership’s general partner, any development that materially and adversely affects Devon’s operations, financial condition or market reputation could have a material and adverse impact on the Midstream Entities and us. Material adverse changes at Devon could restrict our access to capital, make it more expensive to access the capital markets or increase the costs of our or the Partnership’s borrowings. The Midstream Entities are substantially dependent on Devon as their primary customer and through Devon’s control of us and our control of the Partnership’s general partner, and we expect the Midstream Entities to derive a substantial majority of their revenues from Devon for the foreseeable future. As a result, any event, whether in the Midstream Entities’ area of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects Devon’s production, financial condition, leverage, market reputation, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ revenues and cash available for distribution. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Devon, some of which are the following: · potential changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) and related products and services; · risks relating to Devon’s exploration and drilling programs, including potential environmental liabilities; · adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation; and · general economic and financial market conditions. Further, the Midstream Entities are subject to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by Devon, including with respect to Midstream Holdings’ gathering and processing agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which Devon’s business would be impacted if conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on Devon’s ability to perform under Midstream Holdings’ gathering and processing agreements. Additionally, due to our relationship with Devon, our or the Partnership’s ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairments to Devon’s financial condition or adverse changes in its credit ratings. Any material limitations on our or the Partnership’s ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes at Devon could limit our ability to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes at Devon could negatively impact our or the Partnership’s unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing or our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Please see Item 1.A in Devon’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 for a full discussion of the risks associated with Devon’s business. Due to the Midstream Entities’ lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in the Midstream Entities’ gathering, transmission, processing, crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL services businesses would reduce their ability to make distributions to us. The Midstream Entities rely exclusively on the revenues generated from their gathering, transmission, processing, fractionation, crude oil, natural gas, condensate and NGL services businesses and as a result their financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Due to the Midstream Entities’ lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in one of these businesses may have a significant impact on the Midstream Entities’ financial condition and their ability to make distributions to us. A significant portion of the Midstream Entities’ operations are located in the Barnett Shale, making the Midstream Entities vulnerable to risks associated with having revenue-producing operations concentrated in a limited number of geographic areas. The Midstream Entities’ revenue-producing operations are geographically concentrated in the Barnett Shale, causing them to be disproportionally exposed to risks associated with regional factors. Specifically, the Midstream Entities’ operations in the Barnett Shale accounted for approximately 28.4% of our consolidated revenues on a pro forma basis for the year ended December 31, 2013. The concentration of the Midstream Entities’ operations in these regions also increases exposure to 27 Table of Contents unexpected events that may occur in these regions such as natural disasters or labor difficulties. Any one of these events has the potential to have a relatively significant impact on the Midstream Entities operations and growth plans, decrease cash flows, increase operating and capital costs and prevent development within originally anticipated time frames. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Midstream Entities financial condition and results of operations. The Midstream Entities must continually compete for crude oil, condensate and natural gas supplies, and any decrease in supplies of such commodities could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ financial condition and results of operations. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels in the Midstream Entities’ natural gas gathering systems and asset utilization rates at their processing plants and to fulfill their current sales commitments, the Midstream Entities must continually contract for new product supplies. The Midstream Entities may not be able to obtain additional contracts for crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL supplies. The primary factors affecting the Midstream Entities’ ability to connect new wells to their gathering facilities include the Midstream Entities’ success in contracting for existing supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity near their gathering systems. If the Midstream Entities are unable to maintain or increase the volumes on their systems by accessing new supplies to offset the natural decline in reserves, the Midstream Entities business and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, the Midstream Entities’ future growth will depend in part upon whether they can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in their current supplies. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil, condensate and natural gas reserves. Prolonged periods of low commodity prices may put downward pressure on future drilling activity which may result in lower volumes. Tax policy changes or additional regulatory restrictions on development could also have a negative impact on drilling activity, reducing supplies of product available to the Midstream Entities’ systems and assets. Additional governmental regulation of, or delays in issuance of permits for, the offshore exploration and production industry may negatively impact current and future volumes from offshore pipelines supplying the Midstream Entities’ processing plants. The Midstream Entities have no control over producers and depend on them to maintain sufficient levels of drilling activity. A material decrease in production or in the level of drilling activity in the Midstream Entities’ principal geographic areas for a prolonged period, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, likely would have a material adverse effect on the Midstream Entities’ results of operations and financial position. Any decrease in the volumes that the Midstream Entities gather, process, fractionate or transport would adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Midstream Entities’ financial performance depends to a large extent on the volumes of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs gathered, processed, fractionated and transported on their assets. Decreases in the volumes of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs we gather, process, fractionate or transport would directly and adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ revenues and results of operations. These volumes can be influenced by factors beyond the Midstream Entities’ control, including: · environmental or other governmental regulations; · weather conditions; · increases in storage levels of natural gas and NGLs; · increased use of alternative energy sources; · decreased demand for natural gas and NGLs; · fluctuations in commodity prices, including the prices of natural gas and NGLs; · economic conditions; · supply disruptions; · availability of supply connected to the Midstream Entities’ systems; and · availability and adequacy of infrastructure to gather and process supply into and out of the Midstream Entities’ systems. The volumes of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs gathered, processed, fractionated and transported on the Midstream Entities’ assets also depend on the production from the regions that supply its systems. Supply of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs can be affected by many of the factors listed above, including commodity prices and weather. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on the Midstream Entities’ systems, the Midstream Entities must obtain new sources of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs. The primary factors affecting the Midstream Entities’ ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas, crude oil, condensate and NGLs include (i) the level of successful leasing, permitting and drilling activity in the Midstream Entities’ areas of operation, (ii) the Midstream Entities’ ability to compete for volumes from new wells and (iii) the Midstream Entities’ ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines. The Midstream Entities have no control over the level of drilling activity in their areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to their systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, the Midstream Entities have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, levels of reserves, availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment. 28 Table of Contents The Midstream Entities’ construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and may be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The construction of additions or modifications to the Midstream Entities’ existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond their control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If the Midstream Entities undertake these projects, they may not be able to complete them on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, the Midstream Entities revenues may not increase due to the successful construction of a particular project. For instance, if the Midstream Entities expand a pipeline or construct a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and they may not receive any material increases in revenues promptly following completion of a project or at all. Moreover, the Midstream Entities may construct facilities to capture anticipated future production growth in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve their expected investment return, which could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to the Midstream Entities’ existing gathering and processing assets will generally require them to obtain new rights-of-way and permits prior to constructing new pipelines or facilities. The Midstream Entities may be unable to timely obtain such rights-of-way or permits to connect new product supplies to their existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for the Midstream Entities to obtain new rights-of-way or to expand or renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, the Midstream Entities’ cash flows could be adversely affected. Construction of the Midstream Entities’ major development projects subjects them to risks of construction delays, cost over-runs, limitations on their growth and negative effects on their operating results, liquidity and financial position. The Midstream Entities are engaged in the planning and construction of several major development projects, some of which will take a number of months before commercial operation, such as the Partnership’s Cajun-Sibon pipeline expansion project and the Bearkat processing facility project. These projects are complex and subject to a number of factors beyond the Midstream Entities’ control, including delays from third-party landowners, the permitting process, complying with laws, unavailability of materials, labor disruptions, environmental hazards, financing, accidents, weather and other factors. Any delay in the completion of these projects could have a material adverse effect on the Midstream Entities’ business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The construction of pipelines and gathering and processing and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed the Midstream Entities’ estimated costs. Estimating the timing and expenditures related to these development projects is very complex and subject to variables that can significantly increase expected costs. Should the actual costs of these projects exceed the Midstream Entities’ estimates, their liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected. This level of development activity requires significant effort from the Midstream Entities’ management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on their financial resources and internal financial controls. The Midstream Entities may not have the ability to attract and/or retain the necessary number of personnel with the skills required to bring complicated projects to successful conclusions. The Midstream Entities typically do not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves; therefore, volumes the Midstream Entities service in the future could be less than anticipated. The Midstream Entities typically do not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to their gathering systems or that they otherwise service due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, the Midstream Entities do not have independent estimates of total reserves serviced by their assets or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves is less than the Midstream Entities anticipate and they are unable to secure additional sources, then the volumes transported on the Midstream Entities’ gathering systems or that they otherwise service in the future could be less than anticipated. A decline in the volumes could have a material adverse effect on the Midstream Entities’ results of operations and financial condition. The Midstream Entities may not be successful in balancing their purchases and sales. The Midstream Entities are a party to certain long-term gas sales commitments that they satisfy through supplies purchased under long-term gas purchase agreements. When the Midstream Entities enter into those arrangements, their sales obligations generally match their purchase obligations. However, over time the supplies that the Midstream Entities have under contract may decline due to reduced drilling or other causes and the Midstream Entities may be required to satisfy the sales obligations by buying additional gas at prices that may exceed the prices received under the sales commitments. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could purchase more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause the Midstream Entities’ purchases and sales not to be balanced. If the Midstream Entities’ purchases and sales are not balanced, they will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in their operating income. The Midstream Entities have made commitments to purchase natural gas in production areas based on production-area indices and to sell the natural gas into market areas based on market-area indices, pay the costs to transport the natural gas between the two points and capture the difference between the indices as margin. Changes in the index prices relative to each other (also referred to as basis spread) can significantly affect the Midstream Entities’ margins or even result in losses. For 29 Table of Contents example, the Partnership is a party to one contract with a term to 2019 to supply approximately 150,000 MMBtu/d of gas. The Partnership buys gas for this contract on several different production-area indices on its North Texas Pipeline and sell the gas into a different market area index. The Partnership realizes a loss on the delivery of gas under this contract each month based on current prices. The pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 2013 reflects a liability of $100.9 million related to this onerous performance obligation based on forecasted discounted cash obligations in excess of market under this gas delivery contract. Reduced supplies and narrower basis spreads in recent periods have increased the losses on this contract, and greater losses on this contract could occur in future periods if these conditions persist or become worse. The Midstream Entities’ profitability is dependent upon prices and market demand for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond their control and have been volatile. The Midstream Entities are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The Midstream Entities are directly exposed to these risks primarily in the gas processing component of their business. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 3.5% of our total gross operating margin, on a pro forma basis giving effect to the business combination, was generated under percent of liquids contracts. Under these contracts the Partnership receives a fee in the form of a percentage of the liquids recovered and the producer bears all the cost of the natural gas shrink. Accordingly, the Partnership’s revenues under these contracts is directly impacted by the market price of NGLs. The Partnership also realizes processing gross operating margins under processing margin (margin) contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2013 approximately 2.2% of our total gross operating margin, on a pro forma basis giving effect to the business combination, was generated under processing margin contracts. The Partnership has a number of processing margin contracts for activities at its Plaquemine, Gibson and Pelican processing plants. Under this type of contract, the Partnership pays the producer for the full amount of inlet gas to the plant, and it makes a margin based on the difference between the value of liquids recovered from the processed natural gas as compared to the value of the natural gas volumes lost (“shrink”) and the cost of fuel used in processing. The shrink and fuel losses are referred to as plant thermal reduction, or PTR. The Partnership’s margins from these contracts can be greatly reduced or eliminated during periods of high natural gas prices relative to liquids prices. Although the Partnership does not currently have any processing margin contracts for its Blue Water and Eunice plants, it does have the opportunity to process liquids from wet gas flowing on the pipelines connected to these plants, as well as its other processing plants, when market pricing is favorable. The Partnership’s Eunice and Blue Water plants are not profitable to operate unless market pricing is very favorable. The Midstream Entities are also indirectly exposed to commodity prices due to the negative impacts on production and the development of production of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs connected to or near their assets and on their margins for transportation between certain market centers. Low prices for these products will reduce the demand for the Midstream Entities’ services and volumes on their systems. In the past, the prices of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, crude oil prices (based on the NYMEX futures daily close prices for the prompt month) in 2013 ranged from a high of $110.53 per Bbl in September 2013 to a low of $86.68 per Bbl in April 2013. Weighted average NGL prices in 2013 (based on the Oil Price Information Service (OPIS) Napoleonville daily average spot liquids prices) ranged from a high of $1.09 per gallon in September 2013 to a low of $0.84 per gallon in June 2013. Natural gas prices (based on Gas Daily Henry Hub closing prices) during 2013 ranged from a high of $4.52 per MMBtu in December 2013 to a low of $3.08 per MMBtu in January 2013. The markets and prices for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond the Midstream Entities’ control. These factors include the supply and demand for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: · the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; · the level of domestic oil, condensate and natural gas production; · technology, including improved production techniques (particularly with respect to shale development); · the level of domestic industrial and manufacturing activity; · the availability of imported oil, natural gas and NGLs; · international demand for oil and NGLs; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; · the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; · the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; and · the extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including the regulation of “greenhouse gases.” 30 Table of Contents Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact our profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of gas, crude oil and condensate we gather and process. The volatility in commodity prices may cause the Midstream Entities’ gross operating margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. The Partnership’s hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the Midstream Entities’ throughput volumes. Moreover, hedges are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate the Midstream Entities’ exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce the Partnership’s income. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather, process or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, the Midstream Entities’ gross operating margin and cash flow could be adversely affected. The Midstream Entities’ gathering, processing and transportation assets connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties, including Atmos Energy, Enable Midstream Partners, ONEOK Partners and others. The continuing operation of, and the Midstream Entities’ continuing access to, such third-party pipelines, processing facilities and other midstream facilities is not within the Midstream Entities’ control. These pipelines, plants and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, maintenance, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements and curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from severe weather conditions or other operational issues. In addition, if the Midstream Entities’ costs to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, the Midstream Entities’ profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in costs occurs, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process natural gas, or if the volumes the Midstream Entities gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, the Midstream Entities’ operating margin and cash flow could be adversely affected. The Partnership’s debt levels could limit our flexibility and adversely affect its financial health or limit its flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. The Partnership continues to have the ability to incur debt, subject to limitations in its credit facility. The Partnership’s level of indebtedness could have important consequences to it, including the following: · the Partnership’s ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · the Partnership’s funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of the Partnership’s cash flows required to make interest payments on its debt; · the Partnership’s debt level will make it more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and · limit the Partnership’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates. In addition, the Partnership’s ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations depends on its successful financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond the Partnership’s control. If the Partnership’s cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, the Partnership may be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying its business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its debt or seeking additional equity capital. The Partnership may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. The Midstream Entities are vulnerable to operational, regulatory and other risks due to their concentration of assets in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, including the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes. The Partnership’s operations and revenues will be significantly impacted by conditions in south Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico because the Partnership has a significant portion of its assets located in these two areas. The Partnership’s concentration of activity in Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico makes the Partnership more vulnerable than many of its competitors to the risks associated with these areas, including: · adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms; · delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; and · changes in the regulatory environment. 31 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our operations could experience the same condition at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on the Partnership’s results of operations than they might have on other midstream companies that have operations in more diversified geographic areas. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or other industries or by the fuel markets could materially adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ results of operations and financial condition. The NGL products we produce have a variety of applications, including as heating fuels, petrochemical feedstocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general or industry specific economic conditions, new government regulations, global competition, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products (for example, reduced petrochemical demand observed due to lower activity in the automobile and construction industries), increased competition from petroleum-based feedstocks due to pricing differences, mild winter weather for some NGL applications or other reasons could result in a decline in the volume of NGL products the Midstream Entities handle or reduce the fees the Midstream Entities charge for their services. The Midstream Entities’ NGL products and the demand for these products are affected as follows: · Ethane. Ethane is typically supplied as purity ethane or as part of ethane-propane mix. Ethane is primarily used in the petrochemical industry as feedstock for ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Although ethane is typically extracted as part of the mixed NGL stream at gas processing plants, if natural gas prices increase significantly in relation to NGL product prices or if the demand for ethylene falls, it may be more profitable for natural gas processors to leave the ethane in the natural gas stream thereby reducing the volume of NGLs delivered for fractionation and marketing. · Propane. Propane is used as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, as a heating, engine and industrial fuel, and in agricultural applications such as crop drying. Changes in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for propane. The demand for propane as a heating fuel is significantly affected by weather conditions. The volume of propane sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March. Demand for the Midstream Entities’ propane may be reduced during periods of warmer-than-normal weather. · Normal Butane. Normal butane is used in the production of isobutane, as a refined product blending component, as a fuel gas, and in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the composition of refined products resulting from governmental regulation, changes in feedstocks, products and economics, demand for heating fuel and for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for normal butane. · Isobutane. Isobutane is predominantly used in refineries to produce alkylates to enhance octane levels. Accordingly, any action that reduces demand for motor gasoline or demand for isobutane to produce alkylates for octane enhancement might reduce demand for isobutane. · Natural Gasoline. Natural gasoline is used as a blending component for certain refined products and as a feedstock used in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the mandated composition resulting from governmental regulation of motor gasoline and in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for natural gasoline. NGLs and products produced from NGLs also compete with global markets. Any reduced demand for ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane or natural gasoline in the markets we access for any of the reasons stated above could adversely affect demand for the services the Midstream Entities provide as well as NGL prices, which would negatively impact the Midstream Entities’ results of operations and financial condition. The Midstream Entities expect to encounter significant competition in any new geographic areas into which they seek to expand, and the Midstream Entities’ ability to enter such markets may be limited. If the Midstream Entities expand their operations into new geographic areas, the Midstream Entities expect to encounter significant competition for natural gas, condensate, NGLs and crude oil supplies and markets. Competitors in these new markets will include companies larger than the Midstream Entities, which have both lower cost of capital and greater geographic coverage, as well as smaller companies, which have lower total cost structures. As a result, the Midstream Entities may not be able to successfully develop acquired assets and markets located in new geographic areas and their results of operations could be adversely affected. With completion of the business combination, the size of the combined business of the Midstream Entities was significantly increased and expanded into geographic regions in which the former Crosstex Energy, L.P. did not previously operate, including the Cana and Arkoma Woodford Shales in Oklahoma. In order to operate effectively in these new regions, the Midstream Entities need to understand the local market and regulatory environment and identify and retain certain employees from Devon who are familiar with these markets. If the Midstream Entities are not successful in retaining these employees or operating in these new geographic areas, they may not be able to compete effectively in the new markets or fully realize the expected benefits of the business combination. 32 Table of Contents The terms of the Partnership’s credit facility and indentures may restrict its current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes in business or to take certain actions. The Partnership’s credit agreement and the indentures governing its senior notes contain, and any future indebtedness the Partnership incurs will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on the Partnership’s ability to engage in acts that may be in its best long-term interest. In addition, the Partnership’s credit facility requires it to satisfy and maintain a specified financial ratio. The Partnership’s ability to meet that financial ratio can be affected by events beyond its control, and we cannot assure you that the Partnership will continue to meet that ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Partnership’s credit facility and indentures. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt agreements could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If indebtedness under the Partnership’s credit facility or indentures is accelerated, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The Midstream Entities do not own most of the land on which their pipelines and compression facilities are located, which could disrupt their operations. The Midstream Entities do not own most of the land on which their pipelines and compression facilities are located, and they are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if they do not have valid rights-of-way or leases or if such rights-of-way or leases lapse or terminate. The Midstream Entities sometimes obtain the rights to land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. The Midstream Entities’ loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts, leases or otherwise, could cause them to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere and reduce their revenue. The Midstream Entities offer pipeline, truck, rail and barge services. Significant delays, inclement weather or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect the Midstream Entities’ operations and earnings. The Midstream Entities offer pipeline, truck, rail and barge services. The costs of conducting these services could be negatively affected by factors outside of the Midstream Entities’ control, including rail service interruptions, new laws and regulations, rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs or capacity constraints. Inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes, snow, ice and other weather events, can negatively impact the Midstream Entities’ distribution network. In addition, rail, truck or barge accidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials could result in significant claims arising from personal injury, property damage and environmental penalties and remediation. The Midstream Entities could experience increased severity or frequency of trucking accidents and other claims. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could be expected to materially adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ results of operations. In the event that accidents occur, the Midstream Entities may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and their insurance may be inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. Changes in trucking regulations may increase the Midstream Entities’ costs and negatively impact their results of operations. The Midstream Entities’ trucking services are subject to regulation as a motor carrier by the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”) and by various state agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of state highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over the Midstream Entities’ trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing and specifications and insurance requirements. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact the Midstream Entities’ operations and affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for or the cost of providing trucking services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent fuel emission limits, changes in the regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters, including safety requirements. If the Midstream Entities do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired assets with their asset base, their future growth will be limited. The Midstream Entities’ ability to grow depends, in part, on their ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. If the Midstream Entities are unable to make accretive acquisitions either because they are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or at all or (3) outbid by competitors, then their future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. 33 Table of Contents From time to time, the Midstream Entities may evaluate and seek to acquire assets or businesses that they believe complement their existing business and related assets. The Midstream Entities may acquire assets or businesses that they plan to use in a manner materially different from their prior owner’s use. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: · the inability to integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · the failure to realize expected volumes, revenues, profitability or growth; · the failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; · the coordination of geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; · a significant increase in the Midstream Entities’ indebtedness; and · potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Management’s assessment of these risks is inexact and may not reveal or resolve all existing or potential problems associated with an acquisition. Realization of any of these risks could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ operations and cash flows. If the Midstream Entities consummate any future acquisition, their capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that the Midstream Entities will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. The Midstream Entities may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce their revenues and limit their future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with the Midstream Entities’ customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond the Midstream Entities’ control, including competition from other midstream service providers, and the price of, and demand for, crude oil, condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the markets they serve. The inability of the Midstream Entities’ management to renew or replace their current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on the Midstream Entities’ profitability. In particular, the Midstream Entities’ ability to renew or replace their existing contracts with industrial end-users and utilities impacts our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 51.0% of the Midstream Entities’ sales of gas that was transported using the Midstream Entities’ physical facilities were to industrial end-users and utilities, on a pro forma basis giving effect to the business combination. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities may be reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with the Midstream Entities in the marketing of natural gas, the Midstream Entities often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The Midstream Entities are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by their customers could have an adverse effect on their financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by the Midstream Entities’ customers are a major concern in their business. The Midstream Entities are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by their customers and other counterparties, such as their lenders and hedging counterparties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by the Midstream Entities’ customers could adversely affect their results of operations and reduce their ability to make distributions to us. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by the Midstream Entities’ customers, which could adversely impact their revenues. A portion of the Midstream Entities’ suppliers’ and customers’ natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as deep gas shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Hydraulic fracturing activities are generally regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has released draft permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities that use diesel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority. In addition, legislation has been proposed, but not passed that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. State legislatures and agencies are also enacting legislation and promulgating rules to regulate hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals. 34 Table of Contents There are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. In addition, the EPA is conducting a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and has initiated plans to promulgate regulations controlling wastewater disposal associated with hydraulic fracturing and shale gas development. In addition to the EPA, other federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. These on-going or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or other statutory and/or regulatory mechanisms. President Obama created the Interagency Working Group on Unconventional Natural Gas and Oil by Executive Order on April 13, 2012, which is charged with coordinating and aligning federal agency research and scientific studies on unconventional natural gas and oil resources. We cannot predict whether any additional legislation or regulations will be enacted and, if so, what the provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions for the Midstream Entities’ suppliers and customers that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through the Midstream Entities’ gathering systems which could materially adversely affect their revenue and results of operations. Transportation on certain of the Midstream Entities’ natural gas pipelines is subject to federal and state rate and service regulation, which could limit the revenues the Midstream Entities collect from their customers and adversely affect the cash available for distribution to us. The imposition of regulation on the Midstream Entities’ currently unregulated natural gas pipelines also could increase their operating costs and adversely affect the cash available for distribution to us. The rates, terms and conditions of service under which the Midstream Entities transport natural gas in their pipeline systems in interstate commerce are subject to regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under that statute. Under these regulations, the Midstream Entities are required to justify our rates for interstate transportation service on a cost-of-service basis every five years. The Midstream Entities’ intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Should FERC or any of these state agencies determine that the Midstream Entities’ rates for Section 311 transportation service or intrastate transportation service should be lowered, the Midstream Entities’ business could be adversely affected. The Midstream Entities’ natural gas gathering and processing activities generally are exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of the Midstream Entities’ gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels since FERC has less extensively regulated the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. The Midstream Entities’ gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on the Midstream Entities’ operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also affect the Midstream Entities’ business. The Midstream Entities are subject to some ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states where they operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting the Midstream Entities’ right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom the Midstream Entities contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which the Midstream Entities operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Transportation on the Partnership’s liquids pipelines is subject to federal rate and service regulation, which could limit the revenues the Partnership collects from its customers and adversely affect the cash available for distribution to us. The Partnership’s liquids transportation pipelines in the Ohio River Valley and the Cajun-Sibon NGL pipeline, which went into service in November 2013, are subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and its implementing regulations require that tariff rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate service on liquids pipelines be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. The ICA also requires that such rates and terms and conditions be set forth in tariffs filed with FERC. The ICA permits interested persons to challenge proposed new or changed rates and authorizes FERC to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for up to seven months and investigate such rates. If, upon completion of an investigation, FERC finds that the new 35 Table of Contents or changed rates are unlawful, it is authorized to require the pipeline to refund revenues collected in excess of the just and reasonable rates during the term of the investigation. FERC may also investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. Under certain circumstances, FERC could limit the Partnership’s ability to set rates based on its costs or could order the Partnership to reduce its rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the date of the complaint. FERC also has the authority to change the Partnership’s terms and conditions of service if it determines that they are unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory or preferential. As the Midstream Entities acquire, construct and operate new liquids assets and expand our liquids transportation business, the classification and regulation of their liquids transportation services are subject to ongoing assessment and change based on the services they provide and determinations by FERC and the courts. Such changes may subject additional services we provide to regulation by FERC, which could increase the Midstream Entities’ operating costs, decrease their rates and adversely affect their business. The Midstream Entities may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from compliance with pipeline safety regulations. The states in which the Midstream Entities conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. These standards only apply to certain natural gas gathering lines based on the gathering line’s operating pressure and proximity to people. Because of their pressure and location, substantial portions of the Midstream Entities’ gathering facilities are not regulated under that statute. The gathering line exemptions, however, may be revised in the future and place more of the Midstream Entities’ gathering facilities under jurisdiction of the DOT. Nonetheless, the Midstream Entities’ natural gas transmission pipelines are subject to regulation by the DOT. In response to pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the DOT, through PHMSA, have passed or are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements that may be applicable to gathering lines. As a result, the Midstream Entities’ pipeline facilities are subject to the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, which reauthorized funding for federal safety programs through 2015, increased penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. At the state level, several states have passed legislation or promulgated rulemaking addressing pipeline safety. Compliance with pipeline integrity and other pipeline safety regulations issued by DOT or those issued by the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC, could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. TRRC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. The Midstream Entities’ costs relating to compliance with the required testing under the TRRC regulations were approximately at $7.0 million, $8.6 million, and $7.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We expect the costs for compliance with TRRC and DOT regulations to be approximately $5.0 million during 2014. If the Midstream Entities’ pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or the DOT regulations, then they may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines or operate the pipelines at a reduced maximum allowable operating pressure, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. In addition, the Midstream Entities’ liquids transportation pipelines are subject to regulation by the DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, or PHMSA, pursuant to the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended by the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, and reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006. PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring hazardous liquid pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for pipeline segments that, in the event of a leak or rupture, could affect “high consequence areas,” such as high population areas, areas that are sources of drinking water, ecological resource areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage from a pipeline release and commercially navigable waterways, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. Due to the possibility of new or amended laws and regulations or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that future compliance with the PHMSA or state requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial positions. As the Midstream Entities’ operations continue to expand into and around urban or more populated areas, such as the Barnett Shale, the Midstream Entities may incur additional expenses to mitigate noise, odor and light that may be emitted in their operations and expenses related to the appearance of their facilities. Municipal and other local or state regulations are imposing various obligations including, among other things, regulating the location of Midstream Entities’ facilities, imposing limitations on the noise levels of their facilities and requiring certain other improvements that increase the cost of our facilities. The Midstream Entities are also subject to claims by neighboring landowners for nuisance related to the construction and operation of Midstream Entities’ facilities, which could subject them to damages for declines in neighboring property values due to their construction and operation of facilities. Failure to comply with existing or new environmental laws or regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or wastes into the environment may cause the Midstream Entities’ to incur significant costs and liabilities. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, processing plants, fractionators, brine disposal operations and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The obligations imposed by these laws and regulations include obligations related to air emissions and discharge of pollutants from the Midstream Entities’ facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances and other wastes that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Midstream Entities or locations to which they have sent wastes for 36 Table of Contents treatment or disposal. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Strict, joint and several liability may be incurred under these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties near the Midstream Entities’ facilities or upon or through which their gathering systems traverse, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations for releases of contaminants or for personal injury or property damage. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of significant environmental costs and liabilities in the Midstream Entities’ business due to their handling of natural gas, crude oil and other petroleum substances, the Partnership’s brine disposal operations, air emissions related to the Midstream Entities’ operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. For example, the Partnership operates brine disposal wells in Ohio and West Virginia and may gather brine from surrounding states. These wells are regulated under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) as Class II wells and under state laws. State laws and regulations that govern these operations can be more stringent than the federal SDWA, such as the Ohio Department of Natural Resources rules which took effect October 1, 2012. These rules imposed new, more stringent environmentally responsible standards for the permitting and operating of brine disposal wells, including extensive review of geologic data and use of state of the art technology. They apply to new disposal wells and, as applicable, to existing wells. The Ohio Department of Natural Resources also imposes requirements on the transportation and disposal of brine. In addition, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. The Midstream Entities may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Furthermore, the Midstream Entities’ insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against them. In addition, state and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the operation of injection wells used for oil and gas waste waters and an observed increase in minor seismic activity and tremors. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. Regulatory agencies are continuing to study possible linkage between injection activity and induced seismicity. To the extent these studies result in additional regulation of injection wells, such regulations could impose additional regulations, costs and restrictions on the Partnership’s brine disposal operations. The Midstream Entities’ business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, legislation relating to the control of greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing environmental laws or regulations might adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ products and activities, including processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. Federal and state agencies could also impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect the Midstream Entities’ profitability. Changes in laws or regulations could also limit the Midstream Entities’ production or the operation of their assets or adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ ability to comply with applicable legal requirements or the demand for crude oil, brine disposal services or natural gas, which could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ business and profitability. Recently finalized rules under the Clean Air Act imposing more stringent requirements on the oil and gas industry could cause the Midstream Entities and their customers to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs as well as reduce the demand for the Midstream Entities’ services. On April 17, 2012, the EPA issued final rules under the Clean Air Act that became effective on October 15, 2012. Among other things, these rules require additional emissions controls for natural gas and NGLs production, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with such production activities. The final regulations require, among other things, the reduction of VOC emissions from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or “green completions” on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. Moreover, these rules establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors and controllers at natural gas gathering and boosting stations and processing plants together with dehydrators and storage tanks at natural gas processing plants, compressor stations and gathering and boosting stations. The rules also establish new requirements for leak detection and repair of leaks at natural gas processing plants that exceed 500 parts per million in concentration. These regulations could require a number of modifications to our operations and our natural gas exploration and production suppliers’ and customers’ operations, including the installation of new equipment, which could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The incurrence of such expenditures and costs by the Midstream Entities’ suppliers and customers could result in reduced production by those suppliers and customers and thus translate into reduced demand for the Midstream Entities’ services. The rules are subject to an ongoing legal challenge brought by various parties, including environmental groups and industry, and the EPA has indicated that it may revise the rules. Any such revisions could affect the Midstream Entities’ operations, as well as the operations of their suppliers and customers. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas and NGL services the Midstream entities provide. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allowed the EPA to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations restricting emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Since 2011, the EPA has required stationary sources that emit GHGs above regulatory and statutory thresholds to obtain a Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit. Moreover, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule that established a comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions 37 Table of Contents annually on a facility-by-facility basis. The Mandatory Reporting Rule was expanded by a rule promulgated on November 30, 2010 to include owners and operators of onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. Reporting emissions from such onshore activities is required on an annual basis. The first reports were due in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Additionally, the EPA has proposed to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain electric generating units under the Clean Air Act’s New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) program. The EPA may propose to regulate additional source categories under the NSPS program in the future. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and NGL fractionation plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of legislation or regulations imposing reporting or permitting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Midstream Entities’ equipment and operations could require the Midstream Entities to incur additional costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with their operations, could adversely affect their performance of operations in the absence of any permits that may be required to regulate emission of GHGs or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas the Midstream Entities gather, process or otherwise handle in connection with their services. The Midstream Entities’ business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The Midstream Entities’ operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, processing, transporting, fractionating, disposing and storage of natural gas, NGLs, condensate, crude oil and brine, including: · damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; · inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; · leaks of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbons; · induced seismicity; · rail accidents, barge accidents and truck accidents; and · fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of the Midstream Entities’ related operations. The Midstream Entities are not fully insured against all risks incident to their business. In accordance with typical industry practice, the Midstream Entities do not have business interruption insurance or any property insurance on any of their underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. The Midstream Entities are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect the Midstream Entities’ operations and financial condition. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress and promulgation of related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with the Midstream Entities’ business. Comprehensive financial reform legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010. The legislation calls for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) to regulate certain markets for derivative products, including over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives. The CFTC has issued several new relevant regulations and other rulemakings are pending at the CFTC, the product of which would be rules that implement the mandates in the new legislation to cause significant portions of derivatives markets to clear through clearinghouses. The legislation and new regulations may also require counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Midstream Entities encounter, reduce the Partnership’s ability to monetize or restructure the Partnership’s existing derivative contracts, and increase the Midstream Entities’ exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If the Partnership reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, the Partnership’s results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Partnership’s ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and to generate sufficient cash flow to pay quarterly distributions at current levels or at all. The Partnership’s revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on the Midstream Entities, their financial condition and their results of operations. 38 Table of Contents The Partnership’s use of derivative financial instruments does not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and has in the past and could in the future result in financial losses or reduce its income. The Partnership’s operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices, and the Partnership’s credit facility exposes it to fluctuations in interest rates. The Partnership uses over-the-counter price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions. Use of these instruments is intended to reduce the Partnership’s exposure to short-term volatility in commodity prices. As of December 31, 2013, the Partnership had hedged only portions of its expected exposures to commodity price risk. In addition, to the extent the Partnership hedges it commodity price risk using swap instruments, the Partnership will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices. Although the Partnership does not currently have any financial instruments to eliminate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we may use financial instruments in the future to offset its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Even though monitored by management, the Partnership’s hedging activities may fail to protect it and could reduce its earnings and cash flow. The Partnership’s hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect cash flow and earnings because, among other factors: · hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; · the Partnership’s counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or otherwise fail to perform; and · available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which the Partnership seeks protection. For example: · the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which the Partnership seeks protection; · variations in the index the Partnership uses to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index the Partnership uses to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and · the Partnership may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements the Partnership enters into for a given period. If the Partnership’s actual volumes are lower than the volumes the Partnership estimated when entering into a swap for the period, it might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of its derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from the sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could adversely affect the Partnership’s liquidity. The Partnership’s financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices for which it is unable to enter into fully effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when the Partnership engages in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The Partnership’s earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent its derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges and, if it assumes derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent it cannot obtain or chooses not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives it assumes. The Midstream Entities’ success depends on key members of their management, the loss or replacement of whom could disrupt their business operations. The Midstream Entities depend on the continued employment and performance of the officers of the General Partner and key operational personnel. The Partnership’s General Partner has entered into employment agreements with each of its executive officers. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, the Midstream Entities’ business operations could be materially adversely affected. The Midstream Entities do not maintain any “key man” life insurance for any officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 