risk factors and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 2 PART I. ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not Applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not Applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A.Selected Financial Data Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated statements of comprehensive income data (other than ADS data) for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The following selected consolidated statements of comprehensive income data (other than ADS data) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2012 and 2013 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are not included in this annual report. Our historical results for any period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any future period. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to, our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” below. Our audited consolidated financial statements are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (In thousands of US$, except for share, per share and per ADS data) Selected Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Net revenues 25,741 56,820 92,834 136,204 189,190 Cost of revenues(1) (8,714) (17,762) (29,068) (39,080) (53,570) Gross profit 17,027 39,058 63,766 97,124 135,620 Operating expenses(1): Selling and marketing (7,676) (16,875) (30,252) (42,562) (61,824) General and administrative (7,832) (9,948) (16,224) (29,948) (40,359) Research and development (1,159) (1,792) (3,807) (5,446) (8,113) Operating income 360 10,443 13,483 19,168 25,324 Interest income 275 1,165 1,541 4,360 6,863 Foreign exchange gain (loss) — — — 1,197 (4,738) Income before income taxes 840 11,771 16,318 27,096 29,346 Net income 701 9,552 14,047 24,691 28,709 Net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (9,593) (16,993) (30,313) 24,115 28,709 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in per share calculations(2): Basic 12,518,419 10,851,287 10,930,412 41,223,389 53,767,810 Diluted 12,518,419 10,851,287 10,930,412 47,770,132 58,750,856 Income (loss) per Class A ordinary share, and per Class B ordinary share(3) Basic (0.77) (1.57) (2.77) 0.51 0.53 Diluted (0.77) (1.57) (2.77) 0.44 0.49 Income (loss) per ADS(4) Basic (0.77) (1.57) (2.77) 0.51 0.53 Diluted (0.77) (1.57) (2.77) 0.44 0.49 Notes: (1)Share-based compensation expenses were allocated in cost of revenues and operating expenses as follows: 3 For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (in thousands US$) Cost of revenues — — 17 57 107 Selling and marketing expenses 1 1 45 169 315 General and administrative expenses 59 125 654 3,627 4,541 Research and development expenses 3 3 48 210 325 (2)The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the sum of the weighted average number of Class A and Class B ordinary shares. See Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for additional information regarding the computation of the per share amounts and the weighted average numbers of Class A and Class B ordinary shares. (3)As holders of Class A and Class B ordinary shares have the same dividend right and the same participation right in our undistributed earnings, the basic and diluted income (loss) per Class A ordinary share and Class B ordinary share are the same for all the periods presented. (4)Each ADS represents one Class A ordinary share. As of December 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 (In thousands of US$) Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents 16,197 26,139 42,660 79,145 Time deposits, including non-current portion 795 12,162 124,148 86,871 Restricted time deposits — — — 23,100 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, including non-current portion 16,984 15,417 24,672 23,834 Property and equipment, net 8,172 12,806 13,374 19,691 Total assets 46,870 73,673 217,954 254,696 Deferred revenue 9,656 15,487 19,277 25,336 Total liabilities 14,738 25,578 35,067 48,552 Total mezzanine equity 67,099 111,379 — — Total shareholders’ equity (deficit) (34,967) (63,284) 182,887 206,144 B.Capitalization and Indebtedness Not Applicable. C.Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not Applicable. D.Risk Factors 4 Risks Relating to Our Business If we are not able to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our business and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses. Therefore, our ability to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new courses and enhance existing courses to respond to changes in market trends and student demands, expand our learning center network and geographic footprint, manage our growth while maintaining consistent and high education quality, broaden our relationships with corporate employers and market our courses effectively to a broader base of prospective students, including young kids. Furthermore, our ability to attract students also depends on our ability to provide educational content that is perceived as more effective than the standard curricula of universities in China in terms of practical job-oriented training and as complementary to standard curricula of primary and secondary schools in China. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our net revenues may decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We may not be able to continue to recruit, train and retain qualified instructors and teaching assistants, who are critical to the success of our business and effective delivery of our education services to students. Our instructors and teaching assistants are critical to maintaining the quality of our educational services and our reputation. We seek to hire highly qualified instructors with rich industry experience and strong teaching skills. We recruit dedicated teaching assistants primarily from outstanding graduates of our courses. There is a limited pool of instructors and teaching assistants with these attributes and we must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain them. We must also provide ongoing training to our instructors and teaching assistants to ensure that they stay abreast of changes in curriculum, student demands, industry standards and other trends necessary to teach and tutor effectively. We have not experienced major difficulties in recruiting, training or retaining qualified instructors and teaching assistants in the past. However, we may not always be able to recruit, train and retain enough qualified instructors and teaching assistants in the future to keep pace with our growth and maintain consistent education quality. A shortage of qualified teaching staff, a decrease in the quality of our teaching staff’s classroom performance, whether actual or perceived, or a significant increase in compensation to retain qualified instructors and teaching assistants would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to continually tailor our curriculum to market demand and enhance our courses to adequately and promptly respond to developments in the professional job market, our courses may become less attractive to students. New trends in the global economy and rapid developments in the professional services industries may change the type of skills required for professionals in the marketplace. This requires us to continually develop, update and enhance our course materials to adapt to the needs of the professional job market in China. We may be unable to update our courses in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, to keep pace with changes in market requirements. Any inability to track and respond to these changes in a cost-effective and timely manner or to tailor our courses to the professional services markets in China would render our courses less attractive to students, which may materially and adversely affect our reputation and ability to continue to attract students and cause us to lose market share. If we fail to develop and introduce new courses in anticipation of market demand in a timely and cost-effective manner, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Since inception, our primary focus has been on providing IT professional education services. We have since expanded our course offerings to include non-IT training courses, including digital art, online sales and marketing and accounting. We intend to continue developing new courses in anticipation of market demand. The introduction of new courses is subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, logistical, regulatory or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more new courses. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any of these new courses will match the quality or popularity of those developed by our competitors, achieve widespread market acceptance or generate the desired level of income for our students. Offering new courses requires us to make investments in content development, recruit and train additional qualified instructors and teaching assistants, increase marketing efforts and re-allocate resources away from other uses. We may have limited experience with the content of new courses and may need to modify our systems and strategies to incorporate new courses into our existing course offerings. In offering courses in new subject areas, we may face new risks and challenges that we are not familiar with. Furthermore, we may experience difficulties in recruiting or otherwise identifying qualified instructors to develop the content for these new courses. If we are unable to offer new courses in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 5 We rely on digital art and Java courses for a majority of our total net revenues, and a decrease in the popularity and usage of Adobe design or Java technology would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A majority of our total net revenues are generated from the digital art and Java courses. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, our digital art course contributed 10.8%, 31.5% and 30.8% of our total student enrollments, respectively. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, our Java courses contributed 56.4%, 36.0% and 28.5% of our total student enrollments, respectively. The historical rapid growth of our business has been driven by the popularity and usage of Adobe design and Java technology, and we expect net revenues from these courses to continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net revenues in the near future. We believe our reliance on digital art and Java courses is mainly attributable to the wide adoption of Adobe design and Java technology. However, whether Adobe design technology as a digital art tool or Java as a programming language can maintain their popularity is beyond our control. Any factor that materially and adversely affects student enrollment in our digital art or Java course, such as a decrease in the popularity and usage of Adobe design or Java technology, would have a material adverse effect on business and our results of operations. Our business depends on the market recognition of our brand, and if we are unable to maintain or enhance our brand recognition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the market recognition of our “Tarena” (达内) brand has significantly contributed to the success of our business and believe that maintaining and enhancing the reputation of this brand is critical to sustaining our competitive advantage. Our ability to maintain and enhance our brand recognition and reputation depends primarily on the perceived effectiveness and quality of our courses as well as the success of our marketing and promotion efforts. As we continue to grow and expand into new course areas, we may not be able to maintain the quality and consistency of our educational services as we did in the past. We have devoted significant resources to promoting our courses and brand in recent years, including Internet-based marketing and advertising, traditional media advertising and sponsoring industry trade seminars and software design competitions. However, our marketing and promotion efforts may not be successful or may inadvertently negatively impact our brand recognition and reputation. For example, if any governmental authority or competitor publicly alleges that any of our advertisements are misleading, our brand reputation may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to maintain and further enhance our brand recognition and reputation and increase awareness of our courses, or if we incur excessive marketing and promotion expenses, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to sustain our brand image, we may not be able to maintain premium tuition fees over our competitors, which may further exacerbate the extent of any adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, any negative publicity relating to our company or our courses and services, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brand image and in turn materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to maintain our high job placement rate for students, which could harm our ability to attract student enrollments. Our student job placement rate depends on a wide range of external and internal factors. External factors include the macroeconomic conditions, the performance of the professional services sector in China and the recruiting demand of corporate employers. Internal factors include our education quality, the efforts of our career services personnel, our ability to provide adequate staffing to achieve desired results and our relationships with corporate employers. A number of such external and internal factors are outside of our control. Our historical job placement rates have been high. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current level of job placement rate for our students in the future. Any decrease in our job placement rate could harm our ability to recruit students, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by a downturn in the global or Chinese economy. Because our student enrollment may depend on our students’ and potential students’ levels of disposable income, perceived job prospects and willingness to spend, as well as the level of hiring demand of professional services positions our business and prospects may be affected by economic conditions in China or globally. The global macroeconomic environment is facing challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011, the end of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the economic slowdown in the Eurozone in 2014. It is unclear whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. The Chinese economy has slowed down in recent years. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, in 2015, China’s gross domestic product grew at a rate of 6.9%. There have been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the prolonged crisis in Ukraine which contributed to the collapse in the value of the Russian ruble, and the resulting Russian financial crisis. There have also been concerns about the territorial disputes involving China in Asia and the economic effects. Economic conditions in China, including the performance of the IT and other professional services industries, are sensitive to global economic conditions, as well as changes in domestic economic and political policies and the expected or perceived overall economic growth rate in China. A decline in the economic prospects of IT and other professionals could alter current or prospective students’ spending priorities and the recruiting demand from professional service industries. We cannot assure you that professional education spending in general or with respect to our course offerings in particular will increase, or not decrease, from current levels. Therefore, a slowdown in China’s economy or the global economy may lead to a reduction in demand for professional education services, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategies include growing our student enrollments for existing courses, expanding our course offerings, further enhancing the quality of our education services and expanding our corporate employer network. We may not succeed in executing our growth strategies due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following: ·we may fail to market our courses in new markets or promote new courses in existing markets effectively; ·we may not be able to replicate our successful business model in other geographic markets or in new course subject areas; ·we may fail to identify new cities with sufficient growth potential to expand our network; ·we may not be able to replicate the success and growth of our adult education services to the kid education market; ·we may not be able to recruit and retain learning center managers, teaching assistants and other key personnel; ·our analysis for selecting suitable new locations may not be accurate and the demand for our services at such new locations may not materialize or increase as rapidly as we expect; ·we may fail to obtain the requisite licenses and permits necessary to open learning centers at our desired locations from local authorities; ·we may not be able to continue to update our existing courses or offer new courses to adapt to changing market demand and technological advances; and ·we may fail to achieve the benefits we expect from our expansion. If we fail to execute our growth strategies successfully, we may not be able to maintain our growth rate and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected as a result. 7 We may not be able to manage our business expansion effectively, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have expanded rapidly and we plan to continue to expand our operations in different geographic areas as we address the growth in our customer base and market opportunities. We increased the number of our learning centers from 92 as of December 31, 2013 to 134 as of December 31, 2015. This expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management, personnel and operational, technological and other resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations, we will be required to expand our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial systems, procedures and controls and to expand training and management of our growing employee base. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations requires significant management resources. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations, or that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations or recruit and retain qualified personnel to support our expansion. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The growth of our business is in part dependent on our continuing access to a broad network of corporate employers. We derive both direct benefits, such as increased enrollment driven by employer-specific customized courses, and indirect benefits, such as higher student job placement rate and strengthening of the Tarena brand, from our access to a large number of corporate employers. We believe our access to a large number of corporate employers in a wide range of industries is one of our core competitive strengths. If our access to these corporate employers were to become constrained or limited, or the benefits we derive from these access were to be diminished, whether by our own actions or actions of our competitors, our growth prospects and our business would be harmed. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and our business may be adversely affected if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our senior management team. If any member of our senior management team leaves us and we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain experienced and passionate instructors, regional managers and other key personnel on acceptable terms, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel, especially qualified instructors and regional managers, as our business grows. A shortage in the supply of personnel with requisite skills or our failure to attract and retain high quality executives or key personnel could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing courses, to launch new course offerings and to expand our operations and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Mr. Shaoyun Han, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception. To date, we have relied heavily on Mr. Han’s expertise in, and familiarity with, our business operations, his leadership, and his reputation in the professional education services industry. If Mr. Han is unable or unwilling to continue in his present positions, we may not be able to easily replace him and may incur additional expenses to identify and train his successor. We do not maintain key man insurance on Mr. Han. The operations of certain of our learning centers are, or may be deemed by relevant PRC government authorities to be, beyond their authorized business scope or without proper license or registration. If the relevant PRC government authorities take actions against such learning centers, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. The principal regulations governing private education in China consist of the Education Law of the PRC, the Law for Promoting Private Education and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education. Under these PRC laws and regulations and related administrative requirements, to provide professional education services, a company may, in the capacity of a school sponsor, establish a private school which obtains a school permit from the human resources and social security authorities under the Law for Promoting Private Education, and such school can then establish and operate learning centers within the approved districts to provide professional education services, provided that learning centers located outside the registered address of the private schools shall be registered with original approving authorities. Alternatively, a company may obtain approval from the competent industry and commerce administration authorities to include the relevant professional education services in the authorized scope of business as specified in its business licenses. A company with “professional education services” or an equivalent statement included in its approved scope of business can operate learning centers by itself or through its registered branches. 8 However, many local government authorities have different views on the relevant rules and regulations and have adopted different practices in granting school permits to private schools or issuing business licenses to companies that provide professional education services. Although some cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai and Hangzhou, allow companies to include “professional education services” in their business scope, the industry and commerce administration authorities in certain other areas have adopted regional policies of not allowing “professional education services” or similar statement to be included in the business scope of any company. In addition, when we applied for school permits or registrations of learning centers, the local human resources and social security authorities in some cities in China have either informed us that no school permits will be issued to new private schools in their jurisdictions or that they do not permit new learning centers established by private schools to be registered. These regional policies and practices have created significant obstacles for us to comply with all applicable rules and regulations for all of our local operations. We use both ways discussed above to establish learning centers. As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 134 learning centers, of which 36 were managed by schools and 98 were managed by our subsidiaries. Among the learning centers operated by our subsidiaries, 31 have neither professional education services nor education information related consultation as an authorized scope of business in the licenses of our subsidiaries or their registered branches operating these learning centers as of December 31, 2015, and these learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 23.3% of our student enrollments in 2015. We were not able to include professional education services in these companies’ authorized business scope mainly because the industry and commerce administration authorities in these areas have a general local policy prohibiting the inclusion of “professional education services” in the business scope of any company. In addition, 13 learning centers operated by our subsidiaries only have “education information related consultation” rather than “professional education services” in their respective authorized scopes of business, and these learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 8.2% of our student enrollments in 2015. The difference between “educational services” and “education information related consultation” is not very clear under applicable PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that the relevant PRC government authorities may determine that operating learning centers in the way as currently conducted by our relevant subsidiaries is beyond the scope of “education information related consultation.” For these learning centers, we have been communicating, and will continue to communicate, with the competent industry and commerce administration authorities to expand the authorized business scope of the relevant subsidiaries to include “professional education services” or similar statement. For regions where it becomes apparent that we will not be able to expand the authorized business scope of the relevant subsidiaries, we will also explore the possibility of obtaining approval from the competent authorities to set up private schools to take over the operations of the relevant subsidiaries. If the relevant PRC government authorities discover or determine that our subsidiaries operate beyond their authorized business scope, they may order the relevant subsidiaries to complete the registration for change of business scope within a given period, failing which each company is subject to a one-time fine of RMB10,000 (US$1,544) to RMB100,000 (US$15,437), or may be ordered to cease its operation. We have been fined once for RMB50,000 (US$7,719) for conducting business outside the authorized business scope since 2011. For our learning centers operated by schools, we are also required to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits and make filings for each learning center with the competent human resources and social security authorities and civil affairs authorities. As of December 31, 2015, 5 of our learning centers are operated by schools outside their approved districts without obtaining relevant licenses and permits, and 5 of our learning centers are operated by schools outside their registered address without being registered with the original approving authorities, which may subject us to fines of RMB10,000 (US$1,544) to RMB50,000 (US$7,719), confiscation of the gains derived from the noncompliant operations or the suspension of the noncompliant learning centers. These 5 learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 2.1% of our total student enrollments in 2015. We were unable to obtain the requisite permits or make the required filings in some districts because the local authorities discontinued granting permits or accepting filings for administrative reasons for a period of time. Although we have not been subject to any material fines or other penalties in relation to any non-compliance of licensing requirements in the past with respect to our learning centers operated by schools, if we fail to cure any non-compliance in a timely manner, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of the gains derived from our noncompliant operations or the suspension of our noncompliant learning centers, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation. 9 We may lose market share and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected, if we fail to compete effectively with our present and future competitors or to adjust effectively to changing market conditions and trends. The professional education services market in China is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We face competition in our offered courses and in many of the geographic markets in which we operate. As the IT professional education market in China matures, there is increased demand for highly specialized IT labor, and we may face competition from IT professional education providers that offer specialized training programs targeting certain niche job markets in the IT industry. In the future, we may also face competition from new entrants into the Chinese IT professional education market. As we expand beyond IT education into other fields of professional education, we also face competition for student enrollment from existing online and offline providers of professional education services, as well as smaller regional professional education services providers in China. Furthermore, we also face competition from providers of IT and non-IT education programs to kids. Some of our competitors may be able to devote more resources than we can to the development, promotion and provision of their education services and respond more quickly than we can to changes in student needs, market trends or new technologies. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to respond faster to changes in student preferences in some of our geographic markets and engage in price-cutting strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position or otherwise respond to competitive pressure effectively, we may be forced to reduce our tuition fees and lose our market share, which will adversely impact our profitability. Our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our cooperative relationships with financing service providers for student loans. A significant portion of our students enrolled in 2015 relied on loans provided or arranged by CreditEase Business Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or CreditEase, Bank of China Consumer Finance Co., Ltd., or BOC CFC, RenRenDai and ShiTuDai, as well as a number of other financing sources, to pay our tuition fees. We have entered into cooperative agreements with BOC CFC pursuant to which they provide loans to our students for the payment of our tuition fees. We have also entered into agreements with CreditEase and RenRenDai, whereby they assisted our students in obtaining loans to pay for our tuition fees. ShiTuDai is a person-to-person lending service provided by an independent third party. In 2015, approximately 49.3% of our students took out loans provided or arranged by CreditEase, BOC CFC, RenRenDai or ShiTuDai to pay for our tuition fees. Approximately 1.1% of our students took out loans provided or arranged by other financing sources to pay for our tuition fees in 2015. Our cooperative agreement with BOC CFC will expire in March, 2017. We may not be able to renew our cooperative agreements with BOC CFC on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, CreditEase, BOC CFC, RenRenDai and ShiTuDai have full discretion in deciding whether or not to extend or arrange for loans to a particular student. Furthermore, macroeconomic conditions in China may force the financing service providers to decrease or eliminate the amount of credit available for our students, making it difficult for our prospective students to afford our education. In addition, if the default rates on the loans provided or arranged by these and other financing service providers were to increase, they may raise the interest rates on the student loans, making such financing options less attractive to our students. Although person-to-person lending is generally protected as private loans between individuals under PRC law and has flourished in recent years in China, there are uncertainties as to the licensing requirements and the nature of business provided by those intermediaries, such as CreditEase, RenRenDai and ShiTuDai, in facilitating the person-to-person lending. If one or more new PRC laws and/or regulations are passed in the future prohibiting person-to-person lending facilitated by, or imposing significant licensing requirements on, intermediaries such as CreditEase, RenRenDai and ShiTuDai, we cannot assure you that CreditEase, RenRenDai or ShiTuDai will be able to obtain relevant licenses and continue facilitating person-to-person lending in the future. If CreditEase, RenRenDai or ShiTuDai ceases to facilitate person-to-person lending to our students in the future, if our cooperative relationships with the financing service providers are damaged or lost, or if the financing service providers significantly increase their interest rates, our business and financial results would be adversely affected. 10 If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose our competitive advantage and our brand and operations may suffer. We consider our copyrights, trademarks, trade names and domain names invaluable to our ability to continue to develop and enhance our brand recognition. Unauthorized use of our copyrights, trademarks, trade names and domain names may damage our reputation and brand. Our major brand names and logos are registered trademarks in China. Our proprietary curricula and course materials, together with our Tarena Teaching System, or TTS, are protected by copyrights. However, preventing copyright, trademark and trade name infringement or misuse could be difficult, costly and time-consuming, particularly in China. The measures we take to protect our copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are currently based upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws in China and may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized uses. Furthermore, application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial uncertainties to us. There had been several incidents in the past where third parties used our “Tarena” (达内) brand without our authorization, and we had to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. These proceedings were all resolved in our favor and our brand and business were not materially harmed. However, if we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in the future, we may lose our competitive advantage, our brand name may be harmed and our business may suffer materially. Furthermore, our management’s attention may be diverted by violations of our intellectual property rights, and we may be required to enter into costly litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims or other claims which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources away from our business. We cannot assure you that our course materials, other educational contents or other intellectual properties developed or used by us do not or will not infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. In addition, some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our current and potential competitors. To the extent these employees are involved in content development at our company similar to content development in which they have been involved at their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees or we may have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers of our employees. In addition, our competitors may file lawsuits against us. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims, if any such claim arises in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future course materials or other content, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources. Furthermore, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, incur additional costs to license or develop alternative intellectual property rights and be forced to pay fines and damages, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We recruit a significant portion of our students directly from our network of cooperative universities and colleges. If we lose these relationships, or the benefits we derive from these relationships diminish, our growth and our business may be harmed. We have established various kinds of cooperative relationships with over 620 universities and colleges in China. We enroll a significant percentage of our students directly from these universities and colleges through jointly offered majors, on-campus learning sites and university recruiting promotional events. We recruited approximately 16.2% of our students in 2015 from these universities and colleges. If our relationships with any of these universities and colleges were to be damaged or lost, or the benefits we derive from these relationships were to be diminished, whether by our own actions, actions of one or more governmental entities or actions of our competitors, our growth and our business may be harmed. 11 Failure to control rental costs, obtain leases at desired locations at reasonable prices or protect our leasehold interests could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our offices and learning centers are located on leased premises. At the end of each lease term we must negotiate an extension of the lease. If we are not able to negotiate an extension on terms acceptable to us, we will be forced to move to a different location, or the rent may increase significantly. This could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our profitability. All of our leases are subject to renewal at market prices, which could result in a substantial rent increase each renewal period. We compete with many other businesses for sites in certain highly desirable locations. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases at desirable locations or renew our existing leases on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have not been able to receive from our lessors copies of title certificates or proof of authorization to lease the properties to us for leased properties of approximately 3,300 square meters, which consisted of approximately 2.2% of our total leased property as of December 31, 2015. We cannot assure you that title to these properties we currently lease will not be challenged. Furthermore, several of our leased properties are owned by universities or the military or built on allocated land in China. Such properties may not be legally leased to us under PRC law. Our leasehold interest in these properties may be challenged by relevant PRC governmental authorities to be invalid, and we may be forced to move out of such premises. In addition, we have not registered most of our lease agreements with relevant PRC governmental authorities as required by PRC law, and although failure to do so does not in itself invalidate the leases, we may not be able to defend these leases against bona fide third parties. As of the date of this annual report, we are not aware of any actions, claims or investigations being contemplated by governmental authorities against us or our lessors with respect to the defects in our leased real properties or any challenges by third parties to our use of these properties. However, if any of our leases are terminated as a result of challenges by third parties or governmental authorities for lack of title certificates or proof of authorization to lease, we may not be able to protect our leasehold interest and may be forced to relocate the affected learning centers and incur additional expenses relating to such relocation. If we fail to find suitable replacement sites in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our accounts receivable have been relatively high. Inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Understanding the difficulty for recent college graduates to afford the tuition fees of our courses, we offered qualified students the post-graduation tuition payment option beginning in 2006, which led to our relatively high accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, our outstanding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, were US$15.4 million, US$24.7 million and US$23.8 million, respectively. Although we conduct financial evaluations of our students applying to use our post-graduation tuition payment option, we do not require collateral or other security from our students. Adverse changes in the macroeconomic environmental and the earnings capacity of our students could negatively impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable. Furthermore, as time passes, it might be more difficult for us to collect historical accounts receivables. Our bad debt allowance increased significantly between 2013 and 2015, which increase was primarily associated with our post-graduation tuition payment option for qualified students enrolled between 2010 and 2014. Our inability to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all, could cause our bad debt allowance to continue to increase or remain relatively high in the future, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Capacity constraints of our learning centers could cause us to lose students to our competitors. Our learning centers are limited in size and number of classrooms. We may not be able to admit all students who would like to enroll in our courses due to the capacity constraints of our learning centers. If we fail to expand our physical capacity as quickly as the demand for our classroom-based services grows, we could lose potential students to our competitors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. Geographic concentration of our learning centers may unfavorably impact our operations. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from our learning centers in Hangzhou and Beijing. Revenue derived from the learning centers in Hangzhou accounted for 5.3%, 25.5% and 33.0% of our net revenues in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. Revenue derived from the learning centers in Beijing accounted for 36.1%, 15.5% and 12.3% of our net revenues in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations are significantly affected by economic conditions in Hangzhou and Beijing. Furthermore, any natural disaster or health epidemics affecting the Hangzhou and Beijing regions could significantly impact our operations. We expect that we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from Hangzhou and Beijing in the near future. Deterioration in economic conditions and the professional services industries in these markets could decrease the demand for our courses, which in turn could negatively impact our operations and business prospects. 12 Our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of future performance. Although we commenced operations in 2002, our significant business growth and expansion began in 2009. Our business and our prospects must be evaluated in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies at a comparable stage of development. In addition, the professional education services market in China is still at an early stage of development, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Furthermore, our results of operations may vary from period to period in response to a variety of other factors, including general economic conditions and regulations, government actions pertaining to the professional education services sector in China, changes in spending on professional education services, our ability to control cost of revenues and operating expenses, and non-recurring charges incurred in connection with acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions or under unexpected circumstances. Due to the above factors, some of which are beyond our control, our historical financial and operating results, growth rates and profitability may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on our past results or our historic growth rates as indicators of our future performance. Our ability to broadcast our lectures live and to offer online learning modules on TTS depends upon the performance and reliability of our systems and the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. We deliver live broadcasts of our lectures via a dedicated network provided by China Telecom to terminals located in selected learning centers with high student enrollment and via public Internet infrastructure to other learning centers. Any unscheduled service interruption of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China could cause us to be unable to deliver these live broadcasts, forcing us to resort to using pre-recorded lectures in the event of such service interruptions. Our inability to broadcast live lectures during service interruptions may damage the quality of our education and student experience, which may hurt our reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our gross profit and net income could be adversely affected if the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly. Our ability to offer online learning modules also depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Disruptions to the Internet infrastructure of China may deny our students access to the learning functionalities on our TTS or TMOOC.cn, which may hinder students from effectively learning our education contents. Furthermore, increases in the traffic on TTS or TMOOC.cn could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause a disruption or suspension in our course offerings, which would hurt our brand and reputation and negatively affect our revenue growth. We may need to incur additional costs to improve our systems in order to accommodate increased demand if we anticipate that our systems cannot handle higher traffic volume in the future. Our new CRM system may not function properly, which may materially and adversely affect our operations We recently switched to a new customer relationship management, or CRM, system. The new CRM system is developed in-house and is intended to improve functionality and information flow. As with any major new software system, there are inherent risks in the design, construction, implementation and operation of our new CRM system. These risks include the potential failures to properly design the system, to efficiently construct and implement the system and to effectively operate the system. While we believe that our new CRM system will provide the anticipated IT and customer service enhancements we expect, no assurances can be given in this regard. The failure to properly and efficiently operate the new CRM system could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Accidents or injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises may adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and cause us to incur substantial costs. We do not carry liability insurance for most of our students at our learning centers. In the event of accidents, injuries or other harm to students or other people on our premises, including those caused by or otherwise arising from the actions of our employees on our premises, our facilities may be perceived to be unsafe, which may discourage prospective students from attending our classes. We could also face claims alleging that we were negligent or provided inadequate supervision to our employees and therefore should be held jointly liable for harm caused by them or are otherwise liable for injuries suffered by our students or other people on our premises. A liability claim, even of unsuccessful, against us or any of our employees could adversely affect our reputation, enrollment and revenues, causing us to incur substantial expenses and divert the time and attention of our management. 13 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations or prevent fraud or fail to meet our reporting obligations, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Among other things, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, adopted rules requiring every public company, including us, to include a management report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, once we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” as such term is defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (as amended by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act of 2015), or the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm may be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2015, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States, or PCAOB as of December 31, 2015. The material weakness identified related to insufficient review over system extracted data for tuition fees calculation during transitional period of system upgrade. Following the identification of the material weakness, we have reinforced the oversight and review procedure over the data extraction. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot conclude that they have been fully remedied. Our failure to correct the material weakness or our failure to discover and address any other material weakness or deficiencies could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. Furthermore, it is possible that, had our independent registered public accounting firm conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, such firm might have identified additional material weaknesses and deficiencies. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, as a public company, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to timely complete our evaluation testing and any required remediation. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. 14 We have limited insurance coverage for our operations in China. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. We have determined that the risks of disruption or liability from our business, the loss or damage to our fixed assets, including our equipment and office furniture, the cost of insuring for these risks, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms render it commercially impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business interruption, litigation or property insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any uninsured occurrence of personal injury, loss or damage to fixed assets, or litigation or business disruption may result in the incurrence of substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility in and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations, primarily due to seasonal changes in student enrollment. Historically, our courses tend to have the largest student enrollment, cash collection and net revenues in the third and fourth quarters. We generally generate less tuition fees in the first quarter of each year due to the Chinese New Year holiday. Our expenses, however, vary significantly and do not necessarily correspond to changes in our student enrollment and net revenues. We make investments in marketing and promotion, instructor recruitment and training and course development throughout the year. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. As our net revenues grow, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. Higher labor costs and inflation in China may adversely affect our business and our profitability. Labor costs in China have risen in recent years. We employed 5,066 employees in China as of December 31, 2015. The increases in labor cost may erode our profitability and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, PRC government have promulgated some new laws and regulations to enhance labor protection in recent years, such as the Labor Contract Law and the Social Insurance Law, which are also expected to cause our labor costs to increase. As the interpretation and implementation of these new laws and regulations are still evolving, our employment practice may not be at all times be deemed in compliance with the new laws and regulations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigation, our business and profitability may be adversely affected. Although we have not in the past been materially affected by inflation since our inception, we can provide no assurance that we will not be affected in the future by higher rates of inflation in China. We have granted share-based awards and may grant more share-based awards in the future, which may materially reduce our net income. We adopted a share plan in 2008, or the 2008 Plan, that permits granting of options to purchase our ordinary shares, restricted shares (or share appreciation rights or other similar awards) and rights to purchase restricted shares. Under the 2008 Plan, the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares that may be issued pursuant to all awards under our share plan is 8,184,990 shares. In February 2014, we adopted a 2014 share incentive plan, or the 2014 Plan. Pursuant to the 2014 Plan, we may issue options, restricted shares and restricted share units to our qualified employees, directors and consultants on a regular basis. The maximum aggregate number of shares which may be issued pursuant to all awards under the 2014 Plan, or the Award Pool, is 1,833,696, provided that the shares reserved in the Award Pool shall be increased on the first day of each calendar year, commencing with January 1, 2015, if the unissued shares reserved in the Award Pool on such day account for less than 2% of the total number of shares issued and outstanding on a fully-diluted basis on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year, as a result of which increase the shares unissued and reserved in the Award Pool immediately after each such increase shall equal 2% of the total number of shares issued and outstanding on a fully-diluted basis on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year. As a result of grants and potential future grants under the 2008 Plan and the 2014 Plan, we have incurred and will continue to incur share-based compensation expenses. As of December 31, 2015, the unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options and non-vested shares amounted to US$9.5 million and US$40 thousand, respectively, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.89 years and 0.25 year. Expenses associated with share-based compensation awards granted under our share plan may materially reduce our future net income. However, if we limit the size of grants under our share plan to minimize share-based compensation expenses, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel. 15 Any natural catastrophes, severe weather conditions, health epidemics and other extraordinary events could severely disrupt our business operations. The occurrence of natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons, tsunamis or any acts of terrorism may result in significant property damages as well as loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. Health epidemics such as outbreaks of Ebola, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or the influenza A (H1N1), and severe weather conditions such as snow storm and hazardous air pollution, as well as the government measures adopted in response to these events, could require the temporary closure of our learning centers. Furthermore, our ability to broadcast live lectures and provide our education services through TTS or TMOOC.cn depends on the continuing operation of our technology system, which is vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural catastrophes and other extraordinary events. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for every conceivable possibility. Any damage to or failure of our technology system could result in interruptions in our services, and our brand could be damaged if students believe our systems are unreliable. Such disruptions could severely interfere with our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for holding our ICP license do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Prior to 2012, we conducted a substantial portion of our operations through our consolidated VIEs and their subsidiaries and schools. On January 30, 2012, the PRC Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries (amended) became effective, which listed professional education service as an industry for which foreign investments are “encouraged” by the government. On April 10, 2015, the new PRC Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries (amended) became effective, which listed non-accredited professional education service as an industry for which foreign investments are “encouraged” by the government. In light of such change of law, starting from the second half of 2012, we began to transfer the operations, including related assets and liabilities, of our consolidated VIEs to Tarena Tech and its subsidiaries and schools. All of our learning center operations of VIEs had been transferred to Tarena Tech and its subsidiaries and schools. We are in the process of winding down Shanghai Tarena. Pursuant to the Provisions on Administration of Foreign Invested Telecommunications Enterprises promulgated by the State Council on December 11, 2001 and amended on September 10, 2008, the ultimate foreign equity ownership in a value-added telecommunications services provider may not exceed 50%. Moreover, for a foreign investor to acquire any equity interest in a value-added telecommunication business in China, it must satisfy a number of stringent performance and operational experience requirements, including demonstrating good track records and experience in operating value-added telecommunication business overseas. Foreign investors that meet these requirements must obtain approvals from the MIIT and the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, or their authorized local counterparts, which retain considerable discretion in granting approvals. Pursuant to publicly available information, the PRC government has issued telecommunications business operating licenses to only a limited number of foreign invested companies, all of which are Sino-foreign joint ventures engaging in the value-added telecommunication business. Although the Guidance Catalog of Industries for Foreign Investment amended in 2015 and Circular 196 promulgated by MIIT in June 2015 allows a foreign investor to own up to 100% of the total equity interest in an E-Commerce business, we have not engaged in any E-Commerce business. Due to the foreign ownership restriction on Internet content and other value-added telecommunication services, we operate our TMOOC.cn website through our VIE, Beijing Tarena. Beijing Tarena is in the process of applying to add our TMOOC.cn website under the ICP license held by Beijing Tarena. Beijing Tarena is 70% owned by Mr. Shaoyun Han, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and 30% owned by Mr. Jianguang Li, our director. Mr. Han and Mr. Li are both PRC citizens. We entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Beijing Tarena and its shareholders, which enable us to: ·exercise effective financial control over Beijing Tarena; ·receive substantially all of the economic benefits and bear the obligation to absorb substantially all of the losses of Beijing Tarena; and 16 ·have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in Beijing Tarena when and to the extent permitted by PRC law. Because of these contractual arrangements, we are the primary beneficiary of Beijing Tarena and consolidate its financial results in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For a detailed discussion of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” Han Kun Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, is of the opinion that (i) the ownership structure of Beijing Tarena and Tarena Tech will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (ii) the contractual arrangements among Tarena Tech, Beijing Tarena and its shareholders governed by PRC law are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations concerning foreign investment in the PRC, and their application to and effect on the legality, binding effect and enforceability of the contractual arrangements. In particular, we cannot rule out the possibility that PRC regulatory authorities, courts or arbitral tribunals may in the future adopt a different or contrary interpretation or take a view that is inconsistent with the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. It is uncertain whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to VIEs will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. In or around September 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, had prepared a report proposing regulating the use of VIE structures, such as ours, in industries subject to foreign investment restrictions in China and overseas listings by China-based companies. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what such report provides, or whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to the VIE structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. In January 2015, the MOFCOM published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law for public review and comments. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors, and be subject to restrictions on foreign investments. However, the draft law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to existing companies with the “variable interest entity” structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Government Regulations—Regulations on Value–Added Telecommunications Services—The Discussion Draft PRC Foreign Investment Law” and “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations.” If we or Beijing Tarena is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or such arrangement is determined as illegal and invalid by the PRC court, arbitral tribunal or regulatory authorities, or fail to obtain, maintain or renew any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to take action in dealing with such violations or failures, including: ·revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and Beijing Tarena; ·discontinuing or restricting the conduct of any transactions between our PRC subsidiaries and Beijing Tarena; ·imposing fines, confiscating the income from Beijing Tarena, or imposing other requirements with which we or Beijing Tarena may not be able to comply; or ·requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations, including terminating the contractual arrangements with Beijing Tarena and deregistering the equity pledges of Beijing Tarena. 17 We launched our TMOOC.cn online learning platform in March 2015 to cover a broader customer base. TMOOC.cn features sample lecture videos and class materials covering our course subjects. Currently, although revenues generated from TMOOC.cn were inconsequential, it is important for our marketing efforts. Therefore, the imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to provide online education services and conduct our marketing and promotional activities through TMOOC.cn. Beijing Tarena is in the process of applying to add our TMOOC.cn website under our ICP license. However, we cannot guarantee that Beijing Tarena will be successful in this effort. If we fail to add our TMOOC.cn website under our ICP license, our continued operation of TMOOC.cn may subject us to penalties, including confiscation of illegal income and fines, and we may be ordered to shut down our TMOOC.cn website. If the relevant PRC authorities determine that we can no longer own and operate certain of our learning centers through our PRC subsidiaries, we may need to restructure the ownership and operation of these learning centers (including possibly transferring these learning centers to our consolidated VIEs), our business may be disrupted and we may be exposed to increased risks associated with the contractual arrangements relating to our consolidated VIEs. Prior to 2012, we operated a substantial portion of our learning centers through our consolidated VIEs and their subsidiaries and schools. After the PRC Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries (amended) became effective on January 30, 2012 and as amended on April 10, 2015, non-accredited foreign investment in professional education services is now “encouraged” in China and there is no limitation with respect to maximum percentage of foreign ownership in a company conducting business in this area. In light of such change of law, starting from the second half of 2012, we began to transfer the operations, including related assets and liabilities, of our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tarena Tech, and its subsidiaries. All of our learning center operations of VIEs had been transferred to Tarena Tech and its subsidiaries and schools. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 36 of our learning centers through private schools owned by subsidiaries of Tarena Tech. These 36 learning centers in the aggregate accounted for 29.7% of our total student enrollments in 2015. However, there are still uncertainties under current PRC laws as to whether a wholly foreign owned enterprise (such as Tarena Tech) is allowed to indirectly invest in and own private schools through its PRC subsidiaries. On the one hand, the PRC Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries (Amended) encourages and permit 100% foreign ownership of non-accredited professional training business in China and the Law for Promoting Private Education does not expressly prohibit a subsidiary of a foreign-invested enterprise from investing in private schools. On the other hand, according to the Law for Promoting Private Education, Chinese-foreign cooperation in operating schools is specifically governed by the Regulations on Operating Chinese-foreign Schools and its implementing rules, which requires specific approvals from those governmental authorities in charge of either human resources and social security or education and requires any foreign party to such Chinese-foreign cooperation in operating schools to be an educational institution with relevant experience in providing educational services outside of China. In addition, the Regulations on Operating Chinese-foreign Schools prohibits foreign institutions or individuals from independently establishing schools which provide educational services mainly for Chinese citizens in China. In practice, different local authorities have different views and administrative policies on whether foreign institutions or individuals are permitted to use their direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in China to establish a school under the Law for Promoting Private Education without violating the Regulations on Operating Chinese-foreign Schools. 22 private schools sponsored by our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China have obtained private school operating permits, and based on the results of oral inquiries with the relevant governmental authorities of human resources and social security or education, we believe that the relevant government authorities have not challenged and are unlikely to challenge the ownership structure of our schools. However, if the relevant PRC government authorities determine in the future that we can no longer own and operate our schools and their related learning centers through our PRC subsidiaries, which are considered ineligible to act as sponsors of private schools, we may need to transfer these schools and the related learning centers to our consolidated VIEs, which may severely disrupt our business and expose us to increased risks associated with the contractual arrangements relating to our consolidated VIEs. See “—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure.” If we fail to restructure the ownership and operation of these schools or otherwise accommodate requests from the relevant PRC human resources and social security or education regulatory authorities in a timely manner or to their satisfaction, we may be subject to fines, the suspension or ceasing of our operations or other penalties, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Any failure by Beijing Tarena or its shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have an adverse effect on our business. If Beijing Tarena or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce such arrangements. We may also have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Beijing Tarena were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in Beijing Tarena to us or our designee if we exercise the exclusive option agreements pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. All the agreements under our contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, if the losing parties fail to carry out the arbitration awards within a prescribed time limit, the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would require additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective financial control over Beijing Tarena, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. If we had direct ownership of Beijing Tarena, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of Beijing Tarena, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by Beijing Tarena and its shareholders of their obligations under the contracts to exercise control over Beijing Tarena. Therefore, our contractual arrangements with Beijing Tarena may not be as effective in ensuring our control over the relevant portion of our business operations as direct ownership would be. The shareholders of Beijing Tarena may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have designated individuals who are PRC nationals to be the shareholders of Beijing Tarena. The equity interests of Beijing Tarena are held by Mr. Shaoyun Han and Mr. Jianguang Li. The interests of these individuals as the shareholders of Beijing Tarena may differ from the interests of our company as a whole. These shareholders may breach, or cause Beijing Tarena to breach, or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and Beijing Tarena, which would have a material and adverse effect on our ability to effectively control Beijing Tarena. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these shareholders will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Currently, we do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these shareholders and our company, except that we could exercise our purchase option under the purchase option agreement with these shareholders to request him to transfer all of his equity ownership in Beijing Tarena to a PRC entity or individual designated by us. We rely on Mr. Shaoyun Han and Mr. Jianguang Li, who are both our directors and who owe a fiduciary duty to our company, to comply with the terms and conditions of the contractual arrangements. Such fiduciary duty requires directors to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the shareholders of Beijing Tarena, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated VIEs may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Tarena Tech and our consolidated VIEs did not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust our consolidated VIEs’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our consolidated VIEs, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities without reducing our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our consolidated VIEs for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our tax liabilities increase or if we are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 19 If Beijing Tarena becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy its assets, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Due to foreign ownership restrictions in the online value-added telecommunications business, we hold our ICP license through contractual arrangements with Beijing Tarena as well as its shareholders. As part of these arrangements, Beijing Tarena holds assets that are important to the operation of our business, including the domain name for our TMOOC.cn website. We do not have priority pledges and liens against Beijing Tarena’s assets. As a contractual and property right matter, this lack of priority pledges and liens has remote risks. If Beijing Tarena undergoes an involuntary liquidation proceeding, third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets and we may not have priority against such third-party creditors on Beijing Tarena’s assets. If Beijing Tarena liquidates, we may take part in the liquidation procedures as a general creditor under the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law and recover any outstanding liabilities owed by Beijing Tarena to Tarena Tech under the applicable service agreements. To ameliorate the risks of an involuntary liquidation proceeding initiated by a third-party creditor, we closely monitor the operations and finances of Beijing Tarena through carefully designed budgetary and internal controls to ensure that Beijing Tarena is well capitalized and is highly unlikely to trigger any third party monetary claims in excess of its assets and cash resources. Furthermore, Tarena Tech has the ability, if necessary, to provide financial support to Beijing Tarena to prevent such an involuntary liquidation. If the shareholders of Beijing Tarena were to attempt to voluntarily dissolve or liquidate Beijing Tarena without obtaining our prior consent, we could effectively prevent such unauthorized voluntary liquidation by exercising our right to request Beijing Tarena’s shareholders to transfer all of their equity ownership interest to a PRC entity or individual designated by us in accordance with the exclusive option agreements with the shareholders of Beijing Tarena. In the event that the shareholders of Beijing Tarena initiates a voluntary liquidation proceeding without our authorization or attempts to distribute the retained earnings or assets of Beijing Tarena without our prior consent, we may need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce the terms of the contractual agreements. Any such legal proceeding may be costly and may divert our management’s time and attention away from the operation of our business, and the outcome of such legal proceeding would be uncertain. The uncertainties in legal proceedings to enforce the terms of the contractual agreements are mainly caused by PRC laws that prohibit domestic companies holding ICP licenses from assisting foreign investors in conducting value-added telecommunications business in China. Under the MIIT Circular, a domestic company that holds an ICP license is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. In China, legal documents for corporate transactions, including agreements and contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are typically executed using the chop or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC. We generally execute legal documents by affixing chops or seals, rather than having the designated legal representatives sign the documents. We have three major types of chops—corporate chops, contract chops and finance chops. We use corporate chops generally for documents to be submitted to government agencies, such as applications for changing business scope, directors or company name, and for legal letters. We use contract chops for executing leases and commercial contracts. We use finance chops generally for making and collecting payments, including but not limited to issuing invoices. Use of corporate chops and contract chops must be approved by our legal department and administrative department, and use of finance chops must be approved by our finance department. The chops of our subsidiaries and our consolidated VIEs are generally held by the relevant entities so that documents can be executed locally. Although we usually utilize chops to execute contracts, the registered legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated VIEs have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops, unless such contracts set forth otherwise. All designated legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated VIEs have signed employment agreements with us under which they agree to abide by duties they owe to us. 20 In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, we generally store them in secured locations accessible only to the department heads of the legal, administrative or finance departments. Our designated legal representatives generally do not have access to the chops. Although we monitor our employees, including the designated legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated VIEs, the procedures may not be sufficient to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. There is a risk that our employees or designated legal representatives could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the relevant subsidiary or consolidated VIEs with contracts against our interests, as we would be obligated to honor these contracts if the other contracting party acts in good faith in reliance on the apparent authority of our chops or signatures of our legal representatives. If any designated legal representative obtains control of the chop in an effort to obtain control over the relevant entity, we would need to have a shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and to take legal action to seek the return of the chop, apply for a new chop with the relevant authorities, or otherwise seek legal remedies for the legal representative’s misconduct. If any of the designated legal representatives obtains and misuses or misappropriates our chops and seals or other controlling intangible assets for whatever reason, we could experience disruption to our normal business operations. We may have to take corporate or legal action, which could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal cases have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to various PRC laws and regulations generally applicable to companies in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) some of which may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. All of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 21 While China’s economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy, and the rate of growth has been slowing. Some of the government measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. Any stimulus measures designed to boost the Chinese economy may contribute to higher inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to significant limitations on our ability to operate private schools, or otherwise be materially and adversely affected by changes in PRC laws governing private education providers. Under the Law for Promoting Private Education and the Implementation Rules for The Law for Promoting Private Education, a private school may elect to be a school that does not require reasonable returns or a school that requires reasonable returns. At the end of each fiscal year, every private school is required to allocate a certain amount to its development fund for the construction or maintenance of the school or procurement or upgrade of educational equipment. In the case of a private school that requires reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of annual net income of the school, while in the case of a private school that does not require reasonable returns, this amount shall be equivalent to no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, if any. A private school that requires reasonable returns must publicly disclose such election and additional information required under the regulations. A private school shall consider factors such as the school’s tuition, ratio of the funds used for education-related activities to the course fees collected, admission standards and educational quality when determining the percentage of the school’s net income that would be distributed to the investors as reasonable returns. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining “reasonable returns.” In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth clear requirements or restrictions on a private school’s ability to operate its education business based on such school’s status as a school that requires reasonable returns or a school that does not require reasonable returns. As of December 31, 2015, we had five schools registered as schools requiring reasonable returns, while all other schools are registered as schools not requiring reasonable returns. Unlike typical schools which grant diplomas to students upon graduation, we provide professional education and do not grant any diploma to our students. However, the current PRC laws and regulations governing private education may be amended or replaced by new laws and regulations that (i) impose significant limitations on the ability of our schools to operate their business, charge course fees or make payments to related parties for services, (ii) specify the formula for calculating “reasonable returns,” or (iii) change the tax treatment policies applicable to private schools. We cannot predict the timing and effects of any such amendments or new laws and regulations. Changes in PRC laws and regulations governing private education could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. For example, if the PRC government imposes additional restrictions on private schools’ ability to operate their business or restricts private schools from making payments to related parties for services, our ability to receive service fees from our schools may be limited. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a PRC “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, that became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. Under the Implementation Rules to the EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, a circular, known as Circular 82, issued in April 2009, as amended in January 2014, by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, specifies that certain offshore incorporated enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in the PRC: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Circular 82 also clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises. Further to Circular 82, the SAT issued a bulletin, known as Bulletin 45, which took effect on September 1, 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82 and clarify the reporting and filing obligations of such “Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated resident enterprises.” Bulletin 45 provides procedures and administrative details for the determination of PRC resident enterprise status and administration on post-determination matters. Although both Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals like us, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident enterprise status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, PRC enterprise groups or by PRC or foreign individuals. 22 We do not believe that Tarena International, Inc. meets all of the conditions above and thus we do not believe that Tarena International, Inc. is a PRC resident enterprise, despite the fact that all of the members of our management team as well as the management team of our offshore holding company are located in China. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that Tarena International, Inc. is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax on our world-wide income, which could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident to another PRC tax resident should qualify as “tax-exempt income” under the EIT Law, we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax on dividends, and the PRC tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are not controlled by any PRC enterprise or enterprise group and treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from the sale of our shares may be become subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. In addition, future guidance may extend the withholding tax to dividends we pay to our non-PRC individual shareholders and gains derived by such shareholders from transferring our shares. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new “resident enterprise” classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If PRC income tax were imposed on gains realized through the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares or on dividends paid to our non-resident investors, the value of the investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our ADS holders whose jurisdictions of residence have tax treaties or arrangements with China may not qualify for benefits under such tax treaties or arrangements. We face uncertainty regarding the PRC tax reporting obligations and consequences for certain indirect transfers of our operating company’s equity interests. Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and the SAT jointly issued a Circular 59 in April 2009, and the SAT issued a Circular 698 in December 2009. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC “resident enterprise” indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and the overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not impose tax on foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, must report to the relevant tax authority of the PRC “resident enterprise” this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC “resident enterprise” to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In addition, the PRC “resident enterprise” is supposed to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. 23 On February 3, 2015, the SAT issued a Public Notice [2015] No.7, or Public Notice 7, to supersede the existing tax rules in relation to the Indirect Transfer, while the other provisions of Circular 698 remain in force. Public Notice 7 introduced a new tax regime that is significantly different from that under Circular 698. Public Notice extend its tax jurisdiction to capture not only Indirect Transfer as set forth under Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of immovable property in China and assets held under the establishment and place, in China of a foreign company through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. Public Notice 7 also addresses the term transfer of the equity interest in a foreign intermediate holding company widely. In addition, Public Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and introduces safe harbor scenarios applicable to internal group restructurings. However, it also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee of the Indirect Transfer as they have to make self-assessment on whether the transaction should be subject to PRC tax and to file or withhold the PRC tax accordingly. Since Public Notice 7 was recently promulgated and it is unclear how this set of measures, and any future implementation rules thereof, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant governmental authorities. Where non-resident investors were involved in our private equity financing, if such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose, we and our non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or the non-resident investors’ investments in us. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 59, Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. Although we currently have no confirmed plans to pursue any acquisitions in China or elsewhere in the world, we may pursue acquisitions in the future that may involve complex corporate structures. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise under the EIT Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments under Circular 59 or Circular 698 and Public Notice 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated Administrative Measures on the General Anti-Avoidance Rule (Trial), or GAAR Measures, on December 12, 2014, which shows the authority’s intention to fight against tax avoidance scheme that is adopted to obtain unwarranted tax benefit without reasonable commercial purpose. A press release, made by the State Administration of Taxation to clarify certain issues relating to the application of the GAAR Measures, stated that the GAAR Measures may be applicable if any general tax-avoidance scheme exists in the offshore indirect transfer of equity interests. Since GAAR Measures was recently promulgated and it is unclear how this set of measures, and any future implementation rules thereof, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant governmental authorities, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operation, future acquisitions or strategy. We face risks and uncertainties with respect to the licensing requirement for Internet audio-video programs and human resources intermediary service. In December 2007, the State Administration of Press Publication Radio Film and Television, or SAPPRFT, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, issued the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that no entities or individuals may provide Internet audio-video program services without a “License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network” issued by SAPPRFT or its local bureaus or completing the relevant registration with SAPPRFT or its local bureaus, and only entities wholly owned or controlled by the PRC government may engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transmission to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, or the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. In February 2008, SAPPRFT and MIIT jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, during which SAPPRFT and MIIT officials indicated that providers of audio-video program services established prior to the promulgation date of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can re-register with the relevant government authorities to continue their current business operations. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirmed the above guidelines. There are still significant uncertainties relating to the interpretation and implementation of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in particular, the scope of “Internet Audio-Video Programs.” 24 Furthermore, on April 1, 2010, SAPPRFT promulgated the Test Implementation of the Tentative Categories of Internet Audio-Visual Program Services, or the Categories, which clarified the scope of Internet audio-video programs services. According to the Categories, there are four categories of Internet audio-visual program services which are further divided into seventeen sub-categories. The third sub-category to the second category covers the making and editing of certain specialized audio-video programs concerning, among other things, educational content, and broadcasting such content to the general public online. We transmit our audio-video educational programs through our TTS system and TMOOC.cn not only to enrolled course participants, but also to the general public. In addition, we provide audio-video program uploading and transmission services. As a result, we might be subject to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures. If the governmental authorities determine that our provision of lecture videos on TTS and/or TMOOC.cn falls within the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, we may not be able to obtain the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network. If this occurs, we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Pursuant to the Provisions on the Administration of Human Resources Markets issued by SAIC in 2001 and as amended in 2005, a human resources service intermediary refers to any entity which provides intermediary services for employers and any potential employees, and no entity may provide such services without a “License for Human Resources Intermediary Resources.” Any internet information service provider which provides intermediary services for employers and any potential employees via internet shall obtain such license. In January 2015, we launched a self-developed job search website called Job Show (www.jobshow.cn), which serves as a dedicated open platform for our students and other job-seeking candidates to connect with corporate employers more effectively. Although we have not entered into any agreement with corporate employers or any job-seeking candidates, we source and list job opportunities from both IT and non-IT employers in China through the website, which may be deemed as a human resources service intermediary. Currently, we have not obtained the “License for Human Resources Intermediary Resources,” and if the relevant PRC government authorities determine that we shall obtain such license for the operation of Job Show and we fail to obtain such license, they may order us to shut down the website and subject us to a fine of RMB10,000 (US$1,544), and if there is any illegal income, we may be subject a fine of no more than three times of the illegal income, which shall not exceed RMB30,000 (US$4,631). PRC regulations establish complex approval procedures for some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The transfers of our learning centers from our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China may be subject to such approval procedures, in which case we may need to restructure the ownership and operation of the affected learning centers, and as a result we may be exposed to increased risks associated with the contractual arrangements relating to our consolidated VIEs. Six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated regulations effective in September 2006 that are commonly referred to as the M&A Rules. The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In addition, national security review rules issued by the PRC governmental authorities in 2011 require acquisitions by foreign investors of domestic companies engaged in military-related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security to be subject to prior security review. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law requires that the MOFCOM shall be notified in advance of any concentration of undertaking if certain thresholds are triggered. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules, security review rules and other PRC regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 25 In addition, in accordance with the M&A Rules, approval of the MOFCOM is required for acquisitions of PRC domestic enterprises by foreign companies that are established or controlled by PRC domestic companies, enterprises or individuals related to the target PRC domestic enterprises, or “Related Party Acquisitions”, and the parties are not allowed to evade such requirements through investment by foreign investment enterprises in China or other ways. Although M&A Rules have become effective since September 2006, we are not aware of any precedent of approval by the MOFCOM of any Related Party Acquisition conducted by PRC domestic individuals. Starting from the second half of 2012, we began to transfer our operations, including related assets and liabilities, of our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tarena Tech, and its subsidiaries, either through transferring the companies that operate learning centers or that sponsor the schools, or through changing the schools’ sponsors. All of our learning center operations of VIEs had been transferred to Tarena Tech and its subsidiaries and schools. As Mr. Shaoyun Han is a shareholder of both Tarena and our consolidated VIEs, even though the transfers of the companies, which operated 23 of our learning centers themselves or through schools they established as of December 31, 2015, from our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China are not “acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC domestic enterprises” under the M&A Rules, and Tarena Tech, our wholly foreign invested enterprise in PRC, was converted into a wholly foreign invested enterprise before the effective date of M&A Rules, the requirement for an approval from the MOFCOM may still be required for such transfers because of the above anti-evasion clause. Furthermore, it is unclear whether our transfers of the schools which operated 11 learning centers as of December 31, 2015, which are not enterprises, from subsidiaries of our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiaries, could be regarded as Related Party Transactions under the M&A Rules. If the MOFCOM determines that our previous transfers of learning centers from our consolidated VIEs to our wholly-owned subsidiaries are Related Party Transactions under the M&A Rules and we fail to obtain the MOFCOM’s approvals on such transfers, the effectiveness of such transfers may be challenged and we may be need to transfer these companies and schools, including the related learning centers, back to our consolidated VIEs. Under such circumstances, our business may be disrupted and we may be exposed to increased risks associated with the contractual arrangements relating to our consolidated VIEs. See “—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure.” PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, or otherwise expose us to liability and penalties under PRC law. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, has promulgated regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Residents’ Investment and Financing and Round-Trip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 37, effective on July 4, 2014, and its appendixes, that require PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular No. 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular No. 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in their ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion, including (i) the requirement by SAFE to return the foreign exchange remitted overseas within a period specified by SAFE, with a fine of up to 30% of the total amount of foreign exchange remitted overseas and deemed to have been evasive and (ii) in circumstances involving serious violations, a fine of no less than 30% of and up to the total amount of remitted foreign exchange deemed evasive. Furthermore, the persons-in-charge and other persons at our PRC subsidiaries who are held directly liable for the violations may be subject to criminal sanctions. On February 28, 2015, SAFE promulgated a Notice on Further Simplifying and Improving Foreign Exchange Administration Policy on Direct Investment, or SAFE Notice 13, which became effective on June 1, 2015. In accordance with SAFE Notice 13, entities and individuals are required to apply for foreign exchange registration of foreign direct investment and overseas direct investment, including those required under the SAFE Circular No. 37, with qualified banks, instead of SAFE. The qualified banks, under the supervision of SAFE, directly examine the applications and conduct the registration. 26 These regulations apply to our direct and indirect shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions or share transfers that we make in the future if our shares are issued to PRC residents. We have requested PRC residents who we know currently hold direct or indirect interests in our company to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Circular No. 37 and other related rules. To our knowledge, all of our shareholders who are PRC citizens and hold interest in us, have registered with the local SAFE branch and/or qualified banks as required under SAFE Circular No. 37 and SAFE Notice 13. However, in practice, different local SAFE branches and/or qualified banks may have different views and procedures on the application and implementation of SAFE regulations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that they can successfully amend their foreign exchange registrations with the local SAFE branch and/or qualified banks in full compliance with applicable laws. In addition, we may not be informed of the identities of all the PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company, and we cannot provide any assurances that these PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by SAFE Circular No. 37, SAFE Notice 13 or other related rules. A failure by any of our current or future shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the SAFE regulations may subject us to fines or other legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, either we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee share ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules. Under the Stock Option Rules and other relevant rules and regulations, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of the overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by the PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. The participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Government Regulations—Regulations on Stock Incentive Plans.” We and our PRC employees who have been granted share options and restricted share units are subject to these regulations and we have completed the registrations of our stock incentive plans, namely the 2008 Plan and the 2014 Plan, with the local SAFE as required by PRC law. Failure of our PRC share option holders or restricted shareholders to complete their SAFE registrations may subject these PRC residents to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limited our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. 27 PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or limit us from using the proceeds of offshore offerings to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, we are permitted to utilize the proceeds from offshore offerings to fund our existing PRC subsidiaries only through loans or capital contributions or to establish new PRC subsidiaries, subject to applicable government registration and approval requirements. None of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of SAFE. Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries or establishment of new PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. On March 30, 2015, the SAFE promulgated Circular 19, which expands a pilot reform of the administration of the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of foreign-invested enterprises nationwide. Circular 19 came into force replacing both previous SAFE Circular 142 and SAFE Circular 36 on June 1, 2015. Circular 19 allows all foreign-invested enterprises established in the PRC to use their foreign exchange capitals to make equity investment and removes certain other restrictions provided under Circular 142 for these enterprises. However, Circular 19 continues to prohibit foreign-invested enterprises from, among other things, using the Renminbi fund converted from its foreign exchange capitals for expenditure beyond its business scope, and providing entrusted loans or repaying loans between non-financial enterprises. The business scopes of Tarena Tech include research and development of computer software, hardware, internet technology and products and telecommunications technology, transfer of proprietary technologies, information technology consulting, technical services, computer technology training, sales of self-developed products and franchise business operations. The business scopes of Tarena Software Technology (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd., or Tarena Hangzhou, include technology development, technology consulting, technical services, computer software and hardware, network technology, telecommunication technology, services, non-certification computer technology training for adults (excluding business subject to pre-approvals), wholesale and retail of computer software and hardware and telecommunication equipment (excluding equipment subject to national control sand other special controls). Tarena Tech and Tarena Hangzhou may only use Renminbi converted from foreign exchange capital contribution for activities within their respective approved business scope. Therefore, we may not use such Renminbi funds converted to make equity investments in the PRC through our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, the use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 19 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. SAFE also promulgated a SAFE Circular 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. Those circulars may significantly limit our ability to use Renminbi converted from the net proceeds of offshore offerings to fund establishment of new PRC subsidiaries by Tarena Tech and Tarena Hangzhou to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or to establish new PRC consolidated affiliated entities. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We may need dividends and other distributions on equity from our PRC subsidiaries to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the total amount set aside reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. Our PRC subsidiaries may also allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to employee welfare and bonus funds at their discretion. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us or may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. 28 In addition, the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax rate of up to 10% will be applicable to dividends payable by Chinese companies to non-PRC-resident enterprises unless otherwise exempted or reduced according to treaties or arrangements between the PRC central government and governments of other countries or regions where the non-PRC-resident enterprises are incorporated. We may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiary through our Hong Kong Subsidiary. Under the EIT Law, dividends generated from retained earnings after January 1, 2008 from a PRC company and distributed to a foreign parent company are subject to a withholding tax rate of 10% unless the foreign parent’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a preferential withholding arrangement. Pursuant to the Arrangement between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income, or the Hong Kong Tax Treaty, which became effective on December 8, 2006, a company incorporated in Hong Kong, such as Tarena HK, will be subject to withholding income tax at a rate of 5% on dividends it receives from its PRC subsidiary if it holds a 25% or more interest in that particular PRC subsidiary, or 10% if it holds less than a 25% interest in that subsidiary. However, the SAT promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-the-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. On June 29, 2012, the SAT further issued the Announcement of the SAT regarding Recognition of “Beneficial Owner” under Tax Treaties, or Announcement 30, which provides that a comprehensive analysis should be made when determining the beneficial owner status based on various factors supported by various types of documents including the articles of association, financial statements, records of cash movements, board meeting minutes, board resolutions, staffing and materials, relevant expenditures, functions and risk assumption as well as relevant contracts and other information. As a result, although our PRC subsidiary, Tarena Hangzhou, is currently wholly owned by our Hong Kong subsidiary Tarena HK, we cannot assure you that we would be entitled to the tax treaty benefits and enjoy the favorable 5% rate applicable under the Hong Kong Tax Treaty on dividends. If Tarena HK cannot be recognized as the beneficial owner of the dividends to be paid by Tarena Hangzhou to us, such dividends will be subject to a normal withholding tax of 10% as provided by the EIT Law. Discontinuation or revocation of any of the preferential tax treatments and government subsidies or imposition of any additional taxes and surcharges could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and governed by applicable PRC tax laws and regulations. The EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, both became effective on January 1, 2008, have adopted a uniform statutory enterprise income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises in China including foreign-invested enterprises. The EIT Law and its Implementation Rules also permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% upon filing with relevant tax authorities. The qualification as a HNTE generally has a valid term of three years and the renewal of such qualification is subject to review by the relevant authorities in China. Tarena Tech obtained its HNTE certificate in 2009 and renewed its HNTE certificate in 2012 and again in 2015, and is eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% until the end of 2017. If Tarena Tech fails to maintain its HNTE qualification or renew its qualification when its current term expires, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to 25%, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Tarena Hangzhou, one of our PRC subsidiaries, was established in 2013 and is qualified as a “newly established software enterprise”, which entitles it to two years of full tax exemption followed by three years of 50% tax exemption, commencing from the year in which its taxable income is greater than zero, which was 2014. Tarena Hangzhou has also received financial subsidies from PRC local government authority in 2013 and 2015. Preferential tax treatments and financial subsidies are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments or financial subsidies or imposition of any additional taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Although our reporting currency is in U.S. dollars, we earn revenues and incur costs and expenses in Renminbi. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB will affect the relative purchasing power in RMB terms of our foreign currency holdings. As the functional currency for our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs is RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate may also cause us to incur foreign exchange losses on any foreign currency holdings they may have. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. If we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar in 2005, and the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. However, the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rates and achieve policy goals. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar had been stable and traded within a narrow range. However, the Renminbi fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the RMB has fluctuated against the U.S. dollar, at times significantly and unpredictably. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. Any significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our net revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. In January 2016, we entered into a forward foreign currency contracts with China Merchants Bank Co., Ltd. The notional amounts of the forward foreign currency contracts were RMB564.1 million (US$87.1 million) and the settlement date will be on May 19, 2016. We may decide to enter into additional foreign currency contract in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditor. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 30 Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain China-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, from, among other things, practicing before the SEC for six months. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure; undertakings to make a payment to the SEC; procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the SEC; and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to. If the settlement terms are not adhered to, Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms may be suspended from practicing before the SEC. If our independent registered public accounting firm were suspended, from practicing before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to our delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The MOFCOM published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. While the Ministry of Commerce solicited comments on this draft earlier this year, substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a “negative list” to be separately issued by the State Council later. The “negative list” will consist of a list of industry categories where foreign investments are strictly prohibited and a list of industry categories where foreign investments are subject to certain restrictions. Foreign investments in business sectors outside of the “negative list” will only be subject to filing procedures, whereas foreign investments in the restricted industries must apply for prior approval from the foreign investment administration authority. In case the underlying business of an FIE falls within the foreign investment restricted industries, upon market entry clearance by the MOFCOM, the FIE may file an application for being treated as a PRC domestic investment if the FIE is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% or more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders’ meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. 31 The “variable interest entity” structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See “—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure—If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for holding our ICP license do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the “negative list,” the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (including PRC citizens, PRC governmental authorities and their affiliates, and the PRC companies controlled by the foregoing). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the “negative list” without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. Through our dual-class share structure, Mr. Shaoyun Han, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, a PRC citizen, possessed and controlled 53.8% of the voting power of our company as of March 31, 2016. The draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the Internet content and other value-added telecommunication service industry, in which our VIEs operate, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the “negative list” to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final “negative list” mandate further actions, such as MOFCOM market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face substantial uncertainties as to whether these actions can be timely completed, or at all, and our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Risks Relating to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs have fluctuated and may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs have fluctuated since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on NASDAQ on April 3, 2014, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$6.54 to US$15.85 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 19, 2016 was US$10.97 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate and be volatile due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. In recent years, the widespread negative publicity of alleged fraudulent accounting practices and poor corporate governance of certain U.S. public companies with operations in China were believed to have negatively affected investors’ perception and sentiment towards companies with connection with China, which significantly and negatively affected the trading prices of some companies’ securities listed in the U.S. Any similar negative publicity or sentiment may affect the performances of our ADSs. A number of PRC companies have recently listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. 32 In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: ·the financial projections that we may choose to provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure for any reason to meet those projections; ·variations in our net revenues, net income and cash flow; ·announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; ·announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; ·changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ·additions or departures of key personnel; ·release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; ·potential litigation, regulatory investigations or other legal proceedings involving us; and ·detrimental negative publicity about us or our industry. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs is influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs or publish unfavorable research about us, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. Our dual class share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to ten votes per share, with Class A and Class B ordinary shares voting together as one class on all matters subject to a shareholders’ vote. As of March 31, 2016, our Class B ordinary shares represent 19.0% of our total outstanding ordinary shares on an as-converted basis and entitle their holders to 70.1% of our total voting power. As a result of the dual class share structure and the concentration of ownership, holders of our Class B ordinary shares have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They may take actions that are not in the best interest of us or our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. For more information regarding our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” 33 The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, certain holders of our existing shareholders are entitled to certain registration rights, including demand registration rights, piggyback registration rights, and Form F-3 or Form S-3 registration rights. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares. We will be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or “PFIC” if, in the case of any particular taxable year, either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income or (b) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets (as determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities, net gains from the sale or exchange of passive assets (including property producing passive income) and net foreign currency gains. For this purpose, cash is categorized as a passive asset and the company’s unbooked intangibles associated with active business activity are taken into account as a non-passive asset. We will be treated as owning our proportionate share of the assets and earning our proportionate share of the income of any other corporation in which we own, directly or indirectly, more than 25% (by value) of the stock. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our consolidated VIEs as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective financial control over the operation of such entities, but also because we are entitled to substantially all of their economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of our consolidated VIEs for United States federal income tax purposes, we may be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and in future taxable years. Based on our current income and assets and the value of our ADSs and outstanding ordinary shares, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2016 or in the foreseeable future. While we do not expect to become a PFIC, because the value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also depend, in part, on the composition of our income and assets, which will be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes or not to treat our consolidated VIEs as owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. 34 If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules and such holders may be subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2013 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the common law of England, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: ·to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and ·to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our current directors and executive officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your Class A ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as amended, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 35 We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act and may take advantage of certain reduced reporting requirements. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, most significantly, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for so long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be for as long as five years following our initial public offering in April 2014. As a result of our current status as an emerging growth company, our investors may not have access to certain information that they may deem important. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company does not need to comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards until such date that a private company is otherwise required to comply with such new or revised accounting standards. However, we had elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. The decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act was irrevocable. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: ·the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; ·the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; ·the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and ·the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material nonpublic information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, we publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Press releases relating to financial results and material events are also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC are less extensive and less timely as compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by United States domestic issuers. As a Cayman Islands company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are subject to the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards. However, NASDAQ Global Select Market rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, may differ significantly from the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards. 36 We relied on the exemption available to foreign private issuers for the requirement that it hold an annual general meeting of shareholders no later than December 31, 2015 in 2015. In this respect, we elected to follow home country practice and did not hold an annual general meeting of shareholders no later than December 31, 2015 in 2015. We may also continue to rely on this and other exemptions available to foreign private issuers in the future, and to the extent that we choose to do so in the future, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would under the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a result, you may not be afforded the same protections or information, which would be made available to you, were you investing in a United States domestic issuer. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our Class A ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on Class A ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 37 We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional future costs we may incur or the timing of such costs As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including additional costs associated with our public company reporting obligations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ Global Select Market, impose various requirements on the corporate governance practices of public companies. As a company with less than US$1.0 billion in revenues for our last fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include exemption from the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404 in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting and permission to delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we had elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. The decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act was irrevocable. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. After we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate with reasonable certainty the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. In the fourth quarter of 2015, several law firm in the U.S. announced that they were investigating potential securities claims on behalf of our shareholders against us. We cannot predict whether such investigations will result in lawsuits, including class action suits, being filed against us. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 