Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We have described below significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial performance and condition or industry. You should carefully consider these factors, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, before making any investment decision about our securities. Adverse developments or changes related to any of the factors listed below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, future prospects and growth. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Demand for our products is closely related to construction activity, particularly new residential construction, which is cyclical. Historically, demand for the products that we manufacture has been closely correlated with new residential construction in the United States and Canada and, to a lesser extent, commercial construction and R&R activity. Since 2008, new residential construction activities have remained at their lowest levels since 1946 and, correspondingly, demand for the products that we manufacture has been weak. U.S. wallboard consumption was 17.1 bsf in 2010 and 17.2 bsf in 2011, down from pre-recession highs of 36.2 bsf in 2005. Prices fell significantly across the industry as demand decreased. Our net sales declined from $502.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 to $244.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. There is significant uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of the current recovery in such construction activity and resulting product demand levels. Demand for new residential construction is influenced by mortgage availability and rates, employment levels, household formation rates, domestic population growth, immigration rates, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing home prices, rental prices, housing inventory levels, consumer confidence, seasonal weather factors and other general economic factors. Our growth prospects depend, to a significant extent, on the degree by which conditions in the residential construction market improve in the future. We cannot control the foregoing and, as a result, our profitability and cash flow may vary materially in response to market conditions and changes in the supply and demand balance for our primary products. During cyclical downturns in the markets in which we operate, we may incur losses. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, we incurred net losses of $60.5 million and $12.8 million, respectively, while the housing downturn continued. As a result of any possible future cyclical downturns, the price of our common stock may decline. 8 Table of Contents If we cannot effectively compete in our markets, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Many of the wallboard products sold by our competitors are close substitutes for our products. Because of this substitutability, competition among manufacturers is based in large part on price, as well as service, quality and range of products. Actions of our competitors, many of which have significant excess capacity, or the entry of new competitors into our markets, could lead to lower pricing in an effort to maintain our customer base and could also lead to lower sales volumes. At times, the price for any one or more of the products that we produce may fall below our production costs, requiring us to either incur losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond our control. There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by us will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors are larger companies and, therefore, have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. If we fail to compete effectively, we could suffer a loss of sales. If our coal-fired power plant synthetic gypsum suppliers switch to natural gas or cease operations, our supply of synthetic gypsum could be constrained and our operating results or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. All of the gypsum used in our plants is synthetic gypsum, which is a coal-combustion byproduct, or CCB, resulting primarily from flue gas desulfurization, or FGD, carried out by electric generation or industrial plants burning coal as a fuel. The suppliers of synthetic gypsum are primarily power companies. As a result of the increase in coal price relative to natural gas and other reasons, certain power companies have recently switched certain high cost plants or plants that are not compliant with current or anticipated environmental laws to using natural gas instead of coal for their electric generation needs. Additionally, existing or future changes in environmental regulations could make it more difficult or costly for power providers or industrial plants to burn coal. In the event any of the power companies with which we have synthetic gypsum supply agreements, for these or other reasons, switch to using natural gas instead of coal or cease operations completely, our access to synthetic gypsum may be constrained, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In that event, there can be no assurance that we could find alternative sources of synthetic gypsum in reasonable quantities or at reasonable prices. In December 2013 our synthetic gypsum supplier for the Buchanan plant, NRG Energy, announced plans to deactivate its Chalk Point and Dickerson coal fired power plants in May of 2017. These two plants together have recently provided approximately one-third of our 9 Table of Contents Buchanan plant’s synthetic gypsum. It is not certain that these plants will be deactivated at the announced time. However, even if these plants are deactivated, we believe we will have access to sufficient gypsum through multiple sources to continue economically operating the Buchanan plant at required capacity levels. If regulatory changes affect the use of synthetic gypsum, our supply of gypsum could be constrained and our operating results or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Environmental regulatory changes or changes in methods used to comply with environmental regulations could adversely affect the price and availability of synthetic gypsum. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, currently classifies synthetic gypsum as a non-hazardous waste. In June 2010, following a December 2008 coal ash spill from a surface impoundment in Kingston, Tennessee, the EPA proposed two alternative regulations that would address the storage and disposal of all CCBs, including synthetic gypsum, which remain pending. One of the proposed regulations would regulate the transportation, storage and disposal of CCBs as “special” waste under subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, which regulates hazardous waste, except when they are “beneficially used.” The EPA has stated that it considers that synthetic gypsum used in wallboard is a “beneficial use,” but the proposed regulation does not specifically address the regulatory status of synthetic gypsum prior to its incorporation into wallboard or at the time such wallboard ultimately is disposed. The second proposal would also allow beneficial use of synthetic gypsum and would regulate CCBs bound for disposal as “solid” waste under subtitle D of RCRA, which regulates non-hazardous wastes. The EPA has emphasized that it does not wish to discourage the beneficial use of CCBs under either of its two proposals. If the EPA adopts a final regulation that restricts or otherwise increases the costs associated with the use, storage or disposal of synthetic gypsum, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. This effect would depend on, among other things, the regulation’s impact, if any, on the cost or supply of synthetic gypsum used in manufacturing wallboard and the demand for wallboard made with synthetic gypsum. The EPA is expected to issue its final regulation in December of 2014. In February 2014, the EPA issued its risk evaluation methodology for CCBs, as well as the specific application of that methodology to synthetic gypsum. The EPA concluded that any environmental release of constituents of potential concern from synthetic gypsum is comparable or lower than those from natural gypsum. The EPA further stated that it supports the use of synthetic gypsum in wallboard. We are subject to environmental and safety laws and regulations and these laws and regulations may change. These laws and regulations could cause us to make modifications to how we manufacture and price our products. They could also require that we make significant capital investments or otherwise increase our costs or result in liabilities to us. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and wastes and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations, and if we expand or modify our facilities, or if environmental laws change, we could be required to obtain new or modified permits. If we were to fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from claims or liabilities under these laws and regulations, such as with respect to any contamination at our facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials. Environmental laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material additional expenses relating to compliance with future environmental laws. For example, as discussed further above, in 2010, the EPA proposed alternative regulations to address the storage and disposal of CCBs, which include FGD synthetic gypsum, which we use in all of our plants. It is difficult to accurately predict the regulations that will be ultimately adopted. It is possible that the EPA’s rulemaking could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, depending on how any such regulation affects our costs or the demand for our products utilizing synthetic gypsum. See “Risk Factors—If our coal-fired power plant synthetic gypsum suppliers switch to natural gas or cease operations, our supply of synthetic gypsum could be constrained and our operating results or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.” In addition, the U.S. Congress and several states are considering or have adopted legislation to reduce emission of “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide and methane. In 2010, the EPA adopted rules to phase in requirements for all new or modified “stationary sources” that emit 100,000 tons of greenhouse gases per year, or modified sources that increase emissions by 75,000 tons per year, to annually obtain permits demonstrating that they are incorporating the “best available control technology” to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. These rules could affect all of our U.S. wallboard plants and the Seven Hills Paperboard LLC, or Seven Hills, paper mill operated as a joint venture with RockTenn, which produce greenhouse gases. The rules are subject to pending legal challenges that have been filed by certain interested parties, including states, industry groups and environmental organizations, in the U.S. federal courts. If these rules withstand challenge, they could require that we incur significant costs to satisfy permitting requirements. In addition, enactment of new climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the U.S. Congress or various states, or the adoption of additional regulations by the EPA and analogous state or Canadian governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and demand for our products. Our manufacturing processes for wallboard use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. Increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could materially increase our manufacturing costs. 11 Table of Contents It is difficult to accurately predict if or when currently proposed or additional laws and regulations regarding emissions and other environmental concerns will be enacted or what capital expenditures might be required as a result of them. Stricter regulation of emissions might require us to install emissions control or other equipment at some or all of our manufacturing facilities, requiring significant additional capital investments. We are reliant on RockTenn for paper and we may require additional supplies of paper if our current supply is disrupted, the contract is terminated or our utilization increases. We currently purchase substantially all of our paperboard liner from the Seven Hills joint venture with RockTenn. While the joint venture has the capacity to supply us with approximately 75% of our paper needs at our full capacity and 100% of our needs at current capacity, supply disruptions or additional paper demand that cannot be fulfilled on the open market could adversely affect our business. Since we only have one major supplier of paper, our risk of supply disruption may be greater than that of some of our competitors. Paper is a significant component of our variable costs. To the extent we are required to purchase paper on the open market, paper costs would be subject to market conditions and could increase, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. As of the Acquisition, the equity interest in Seven Hills remained with Lafarge. On March 13, 2014, Lafarge assigned its interest in the joint venture agreement and the other operative agreements to us, and such agreements will continue on the same terms and conditions as were in effect with Lafarge prior to the Acquisition. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our sales volume could be reduced if our customers switch some or all of their business with us to other suppliers. As is customary in the industry, we do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers. Our customers may choose to stop or reduce purchases of our products at any time in the future. A significant loss of our customers or a significant reduction in their purchases could have a material negative impact on our sales volume and business, or cause us to reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents The loss of sales to Lowe’s may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, Lowe’s accounted for 14%, 15% and 12% of our net sales, respectively. If Lowe’s reduces, delays or cancels a substantial number of orders, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected, particularly for the period in which the reduction, delay or cancellation occurs and also possibly for subsequent periods. Because we do not have binding long-term purchasing agreements with Lowe’s, there can be no assurance that Lowe’s will continue to purchase products from us at current levels or at all. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities or at one of our suppliers’ facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively affect our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including but not limited to: • major equipment failure; • fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, environmental incidents or other catastrophes; • utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions; • labor difficulties; • other operational problems; or • war, acts of terrorism or other unexpected events. Any downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in decreased customer satisfaction and lower sales and net income. Because we operate at a limited number of facilities, the effects of any particular shutdown or facility damage could be significant to our operations as a whole and pronounced in the markets near the facility affected. In addition, our suppliers of synthetic gypsum and paperboard liner are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks noted above. Our suppliers’ inability to produce the necessary raw materials for our manufacturing processes may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Because we rely on a limited number of suppliers, a disruption at any one of our suppliers’ facilities could have a significant impact on our business. 13 Table of Contents If the cost of energy increases, our cost of goods sold will increase and our operating results or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Our manufacturing processes use substantial amounts of natural gas and electricity, which are major components of our cost of goods sold. Energy costs are affected by various market factors, including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions. Prices for natural gas and electrical power have been volatile in recent years. There may be substantial increases in the price of energy in the future, which may be pronounced if there are dislocations in the energy markets due to political instability or other unforeseeable events. Although we have hedged in the past and may do so in the future, we currently do not hedge any of our natural gas or electricity purchases and consequently may be adversely impacted by increases in price more than competitors utilizing a hedging strategy. Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because manufacturers are responsible for delivering wallboard to their customers in our industry, transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of our variable costs. Increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in increases in the cost of transportation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. Also, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation, such as rail or trucking, could limit our ability to deliver our products and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits. Our financial results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. We are subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation and similar disputes are often difficult to predict reliably. Various factors and developments could lead us to make changes in current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, where applicable, or make additional estimates, including new or modified estimates as a result of a judicial ruling or judgment, a settlement, regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key management employees. Our key management personnel are important to our success. Our ability to retain our key management personnel or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key management personnel or a limitation in their availability could materially and adversely impact our business. 14 Table of Contents We may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar events or disruptions. We are in the process of implementing an enterprise resource planning system, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2014 and is anticipated to be completed before the end of 2014. We may in the future add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. Predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. We may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. In addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. A disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. In addition, we could be subject to reputational harm or liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our information technology systems. Despite our security measures and business continuity plans, these systems could be vulnerable to disruption, and any such disruption could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Labor disruptions or cost increases could adversely affect our business. A work stoppage at one of our facilities could cause us to lose sales, incur increased costs and adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ needs. A plant shutdown or a substantial modification to employment terms could negatively impact us. The current collective bargaining agreement with our unionized employees at our Buchanan plant is set to expire on November 30, 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate the collective bargaining agreement on the same or similar terms as those in the current agreement, or at all, without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. Approximately 15% of our 480 employees were unionized as of December 31, 2013. From time to time we have experienced union organizing efforts directed at our non-union employees. We may also experience labor cost increases or disruptions in our non-union facilities in circumstances in which we must compete for employees with necessary skills and experience or in tight labor markets. Any such cost increases, work stoppages or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by limiting production, sales volumes and profitability. 15 Table of Contents Our business can be seasonal in nature, and this may cause our quarterly results to vary. Sales of our wallboard products are, similar to many building products, seasonal in that sales are generally slightly higher from spring through autumn when construction activity is greatest in our markets. As a result, our quarterly results have varied in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Additionally, because our business is seasonal, unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods could have an adverse effect on our sales. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our current indebtedness, and any future indebtedness we may incur, may limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business. Our subsidiary, Continental Building Products Operating Company, LLC, or OpCo, is a party to certain secured credit facilities that were entered into in connection with the Acquisition. As of December 31, 2013, $414.0 million was outstanding under the First Lien Credit Agreement, $155.0 million was outstanding under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and no revolving loans were outstanding under the Revolver. In connection with our initial public offering, on February 10, 2014, we repaid the entire $155.0 million under the Second Lien Credit Agreement. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. These credit facilities, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have important consequences to you, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • the requirement that we use a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on any outstanding indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited. We expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations for funds to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our credit facilities and any other indebtedness we may incur. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money, in each case on terms that may not be acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our existing credit facilities, may restrict us from adopting 16 Table of Contents any of these alternatives. Our ability to recapitalize and incur additional debt in the future could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company, make some transactions more difficult and impose additional financial or other covenants on us. In addition, any significant levels of indebtedness in the future could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. Our indebtedness and any inability to pay our debt obligations as they come due or inability to incur additional debt could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The terms of our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us. OpCo’s credit facilities contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally limit OpCo’s ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain loan advances; • engage in acquisitions, consolidations, mergers, changes of control and sales of certain assets; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make optional payments and modifications of junior debt instruments; • engage in certain affiliate transactions, sales and leasebacks and pledge transactions; • make certain restricted subsidiary distributions; • engage in certain lines of business or activities; and • modify certain agreements. The credit facilities limit our ability to engage in these types of transactions even if we believe that a specific transaction would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results. The First Lien Credit Agreement also requires OpCo and its restricted subsidiaries to maintain a specific total leverage ratio in certain circumstances. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities” for more information regarding the terms of these credit facilities. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these provisions or the inability to comply with required financial ratios in the credit facilities could result in a default, in which case the lenders will have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay all borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to secure the indebtedness. If we breach these covenants or fail to comply with the terms of the credit facilities, and the lenders accelerate the amounts outstanding under the credit facilities, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Lafarge Our historical financial information as a division of Lafarge may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. The historical financial information that we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been derived from the historical financial statements of Lafarge and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our combined financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Lafarge. These allocated costs are primarily related to corporate administrative expense, employee-related costs including pensions and other benefits for corporate and shared employees, and rental and usage fees for shared assets for the following functional groups: information technology, legal services, accounting and finance services, human resources, market and contract support, customer support, treasury, facility and other corporate and infrastructural services. While we believe that these allocations are reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services in support of our business, we have not made adjustments to reflect many significant changes that will occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of the Acquisition, including changes in our employee base, changes in our legal structure, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, migration of our informational technology systems, increased marketing expenses related to establishing a new brand identity and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company. As a result of the Acquisition, we have had a very limited history of functioning as a stand-alone company and do not present financial results in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a stand-alone company for any full financial reporting period. As a result of these factors, the historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the amount that would have been reflected in our financial statements had we been a stand-alone company or indicative of our future results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, and our historical combined financial statements and notes thereto. 18 Table of Contents The transitional services that Lafarge currently provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and our ability to change the scope of the services provided may be limited. Historically, Lafarge has provided significant corporate and shared services related to corporate functions such as information technology, legal services, accounting and finance services, human resources, marketing and contract support, customer support, treasury, facility and other corporate and infrastructural services. Following the Acquisition, Lafarge has continued to provide many of these services on a transitional basis for a fee. While these services are being provided to us by Lafarge, these services may be insufficient to meet our needs and our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts that we pay for them will be limited. After the expiration of our transitional services agreement, we will no longer have access to the resources of Lafarge, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power. After the expiration of the transitional services agreement, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us by Lafarge or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we will receive from Lafarge under the transitional services agreement. Although we intend to replace portions of the services currently provided by Lafarge, we may encounter difficulties replacing certain services or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms for such services or for other goods, services or supplies as favorable as those we currently have in effect. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Because our common stock has only recently started trading in the public market, the trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and our common stock prices may be volatile and could decline substantially. Prior to the public offering of our stock in February 2014, there had been no market for shares of our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol “CBPX,” an active trading market for the shares of our common stock may not be sustained. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to the following: • the likelihood that an active trading market for shares of our common stock will be sustained; • the liquidity of any such market; • the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock; or • the price that our stockholders may obtain for their common stock. 19 Table of Contents If an active market is not maintained, the market price of our common stock may decline and you may not be able to sell your shares. Even in an active trading market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect or result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • changes in the residential, commercial or R&R construction market; • additions or departures of key personnel; • actions by stockholders, including the sale by Lone Star of its shares of our common stock; • speculation in the press or investment community; • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets; • changes in interest rates; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts; • changes in accounting principles; • changes in tax laws; and • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or the homebuilding industry. These and other factors may lower the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and materially affect the value of your investment. Lone Star owns a substantial portion of our common stock, it may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future and its significant ownership may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Lone Star beneficially owns approximately 69.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this concentration of stock ownership, Lone Star acting on its own has sufficient voting power to effectively control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including director elections and proposed amendments to our bylaws. Five of the nine members of our board of directors are employees or affiliates of Lone Star. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination or change in control of our company and make some transactions that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock more difficult or impossible without the support of Lone Star. The interests of Lone Star may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, Lone Star could cause us to enter into transactions or 21 Table of Contents agreements of which you would not approve or make decisions with which you would disagree. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. In connection with our initial public offering in February 2014, we, Lone Star and our officers and directors signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters in our initial public offering that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict the sale of shares of our common stock held by them until August 3, 2014. After the lock-up period expires or if it is waived, Lone Star will be able to transfer control of us to a third-party by transferring its common stock, which would not require the approval of our board of directors or other stockholders. Additionally, Lone Star is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Lone Star may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In recognition that principals, members, directors, managers, partners, stockholders, officers, employees and other representatives of Lone Star and its affiliates and investment funds may serve as our directors or officers, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that none of Lone Star or any principal, member, director, manager, partner, stockholder, officer, employee or other representative of Lone Star has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. In the event that any of these persons or entities acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for itself and us, we will not have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and these persons and entities will not have any duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us and may pursue or acquire such corporate opportunity for itself or direct such opportunity to another person. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if, among other things, attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by the sponsors to themselves or their other affiliates. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Lone Star controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a person or group is a “controlled company” and need not comply with certain requirements, including the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and the requirements that our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees be comprised entirely of independent directors. We are utilizing these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and compensation committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. 22 Table of Contents Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and our current operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results could affect our stock price in the future. Our revenues and operating results have historically varied from period to period and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the cyclicality and seasonality of our industry. If our quarterly financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of future performance. We have no present intention to pay dividends on our common stock. We have no present intention to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, projections, liquidity, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, you may need to sell your shares of our common stock to realize a return on your investment, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part by the research and other reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us or our business. We currently have, but may not be able to continue, research coverage by industry or financial analysts. If analysts do not continue coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely be negatively impacted. Even if analyst coverage continues, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or inaccurate research, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 23 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. If our principal stockholder, Lone Star, sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that Lone Star might sell substantial amounts of our common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. Any such sale or perception could also impair our ability to raise capital or pay for acquisitions using our equity securities. We have 44,069,000 shares of common stock outstanding, including 30,539,250 shares that are beneficially owned by Lone Star as of March 21, 2014, or approximately 69.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Unless such shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, such shares may only be resold into the public markets in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144, including the volume limitations, manner of sale requirements and notice requirements thereof. In addition, the remaining shares of our common stock that are outstanding will become eligible for sale in the public markets from time to time, subject to Securities Act restrictions. We, Lone Star, and our officers and directors have signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters that will, subject to certain exceptions, restrict the sale of shares of our common stock held by them until August 3, 2014. The underwriters may, without notice except in certain limited circumstances, release all or any portion of the shares of common stock subject to lock-up agreements. Upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements described above, all of such shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, subject in the case of shares held by our affiliates, to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. Lone Star has the right to demand that we file a registration statement with respect to the shares of our common stock held by it, and will have the right to include its shares in any registration statement that we file with the SEC, subject to certain exceptions. Any registration of the shares owned by Lone Star would enable those shares to be sold in the public market, subject to certain restrictions in our registration rights agreement and the restrictions under the lock-up agreements referred to above. The market price for shares of our common stock may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholder lapse or if those restrictions on resale are waived. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering shares under our stock incentive plan. Subject to the terms of the awards granting the shares included in this registration statement and except for shares held by affiliates who will have certain restrictions on their ability to sell, the shares will be available for sale in the public market immediately after the vesting of the applicable award. 24 Table of Contents In the future, we expect to issue options, restricted stock and other forms of stock-based compensation, which have the potential to dilute stockholder value and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We expect to offer stock options, restricted stock and other forms of stock-based compensation to our directors, officers and employees in the future. If any options that we issue are exercised, or any restricted stock that we may issue vests, and those shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the availability of shares of common stock for award under our equity incentive plan, or the grant of stock options, restricted stock or other forms of stock-based compensation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets and intellectual property. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries directly or indirectly to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments. Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and other documents could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: • permit us to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers, if any, of the shares of the series and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series; • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; • restrict the ability of stockholders to act by written consent after such time as Lone Star owns less than a majority of our common stock; • limit the ability of stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • require advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; and • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company, including a transaction in which the acquiror may offer a premium price for our common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder. In addition, our equity incentive plan permits vesting of stock options and restricted stock, and payments to be made to the employees thereunder in certain circumstances, in connection with a change of control of our company, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. In addition, our credit facilities, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may include provisions entitling the lenders to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to our company, which also could discourage, delay or prevent a business combination transaction. 26 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation includes a forum selection clause, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or employees to us or to our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware); in all cases subject to the court’s having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. This forum selection provision in our certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. It is also possible that, notwithstanding the forum selection clause included in our certificate of incorporation, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. As a public company, we are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K related to full year 2014 financial results. Additionally, as an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first Annual Report on Form 10-K required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event that it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. 27 Table of Contents To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. In addition, when evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected, and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us. Because we are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we have included only three, rather than five, years of selected financial information. Accordingly, we have included only a limited operating history on which investors can base an evaluation of our business, results of operations and prospects. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier. 28 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention, and our minimal public company operating experience may impact our business and stock price. As a U.S. public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (other than the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 while we continue to qualify as an “emerging growth company”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business, brand and reputation and results of operations. Being a public company and these new rules and regulations makes it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Potential liability associated with serving on a public company’s board could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. Our minimal public company operating experience may make it difficult to forecast and evaluate our future prospects. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, either as a result of our inability to effectively manage our business in a public company environment or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed, which could cause our stock price to decline. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company. As a company with publicly-traded securities, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses not previously incurred. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules promulgated by the SEC and the NYSE, require us to adopt corporate governance practices applicable to U.S. public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and may place a 29 Table of Contents strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. We will be implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 