Item 1A. Risk Factors We face intense competition, in particular from companies that develop rival products to our branded pharmaceutical products and from companies with which we compete to acquire rights to intellectual property assets.The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive, and we face competition across the full range of our activities. In addition to product safety, development and efficacy, other competitive factors in the branded pharmaceuticals market include product quality and price, reputation, service and access to scientific and technical information. If we fail to compete successfully in any of these areas, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our competitors include many of the major brand name and generic manufacturers of pharmaceuticals. In the market for branded pharmaceuticals, our competitors, including Abbott Laboratories, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Inc., Purdue Pharma, L.P., Allergan, Inc., Valeant Pharmaceuticals International and Actavis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., among others, vary depending on product category, product dosage strength and drug-delivery systems. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Because we are smaller than some of our national competitors in the branded pharmaceuticals sector, we may lack the financial and other resources needed to maintain our profit margins and market share in this sector.The intensely competitive environment of the branded products business requires an ongoing, extensive search for medical and technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively, including the ability to communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of branded products for their intended uses to healthcare professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop medical or technological innovations or that we will be able to effectively market our existing branded products or new products we develop.Our branded products face competition from generic versions. Generic versions are generally significantly cheaper than branded versions and, where available, may be required or encouraged in place of the branded version under third party reimbursement programs, or substituted by pharmacies for branded versions by law. The entrance of generic competition to our branded products generally reduces our market share and adversely affects our profitability and cash flows. Generic competition with our branded products has had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on the net sales and profitability of our branded products.In addition, our generics business faces competition from brand-name pharmaceutical companies, which have taken aggressive steps to thwart or delay competition from generic equivalents of their brand-name products. The actions taken by competing brand name pharmaceutical companies may increase the costs and risks associated with our efforts to introduce generic products and may delay or prevent such introduction altogether.In addition to our in-house research and development efforts, we seek to acquire rights to new intellectual property through corporate acquisitions, asset acquisitions, licensing and joint venture arrangements. We compete to acquire the intellectual property assets that we require to continue to develop and broaden our product range. Competitors with greater resources may acquire assets that we seek, and even where we are successful, competition may increase the acquisition price of such assets or prevent us from capitalizing on such acquisitions or licensing opportunities. If we fail to compete successfully, our growth may be limited.24Table of ContentsIf generic manufacturers use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our branded drugs, our sales may suffer.Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic bioequivalent version of a previously approved drug, without undertaking the full clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its generic product is bioequivalent to the branded product.In recent years, various generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs seeking FDA approval for generic versions of certain of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products, including but not limited to Lidoderm®, both the original and crush-resistant formulations of Opana® ER and Fortesta® Gel. In connection with such filings, these manufacturers have challenged the validity and/or enforceability of one or more of the underlying patents protecting our products. It has been and continues to be our practice to vigorously defend and pursue all available legal and regulatory avenues in defense of the intellectual property rights protecting our key products. As a result, there are currently ongoing legal proceedings brought by the Company and/or its subsidiaries, and in certain cases its third party partners, against manufacturers seeking FDA approval for generic versions of the Company’s products.Despite our efforts to defend our products, litigation is inherently uncertain, and we cannot predict the timing or outcome of our efforts. If we are not successful in defending our intellectual property rights or opt to settle, or if a product’s marketing exclusivity rights expire or become otherwise unenforceable, our competitors could ultimately launch generic versions of our products, which could significantly decrease our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as well as our share price. Due in large part to the materiality of our revenues from Lidoderm®, Opana® ER and Voltaren® Gel (for which our marketing exclusivity rights expired in October 2010), as well as the fact that multiple ANDAs have been filed for Lidoderm® and both the original and crush-resistant formulations of Opana® ER, we believe our most significant risks from generic competition relate to these products. Additionally, although we no longer market the non-crush resistant formulation of Opana® ER, generic versions of this formulation are commercially available, which have resulted and may continue to result in reduced sales of our crush-resistant formulation. For a complete description of the related legal proceedings, see Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15. of this report "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules".Lidoderm® accounted for 5% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, 23% in 2013 and 34% in 2012. Opana® ER accounted for 7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, 9% in 2013 and 11% in 2012. Voltaren® Gel accounted for 6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, 7% in 2013 and 4% in 2012. Although these percentages have generally decreased in recent years as a result of strategic acquisitions and organic growth of our U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals product portfolio, these products continue to represent significant percentages of our total revenues. Our revenues from Lidoderm® have been negatively affected by the September 16, 2013 launch of Actavis’s lidocaine patch 5%, a generic version of Lidoderm®, and these revenues could decrease further should one or more additional generic versions launch. Launches of competing generic versions of the non-crush-resistant formulation Opana® ER, which began in early 2013 adversely affected our results of operations upon launch and will likely continue to do so in the future. Should additional generic competition enter the market for either formulation of Opana® ER, our revenues from Opana® ER could decrease further. Similarly, the launch of a generic version of Voltaren® Gel or any of our other products could negatively affect that product’s revenues. Decreases in revenue related to generic competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as well as our share price.We may be the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities.Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that arise from the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products. The Company is currently being sued in product liability cases. In addition to direct expenditures for damages, settlement and defense costs, there is a possibility of adverse publicity and loss of revenues as a result of product liability claims. Product liability is a significant commercial risk for us. Some plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical and/or medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. In addition, in the age of social media, plaintiffs’ counsel now have a wide variety of tools to advertise their services and solicit new clients for litigation. Thus, we could expect that any significant product liability litigation or mass tort in which we are a defendant will have a larger number of plaintiffs than such actions have seen historically because of the increasing use of wide-spread and media-varied advertising. In addition, it may be necessary for us to voluntarily or mandatorily recall or withdraw products that do not meet approved specifications or which subsequent data demonstrate may be unsafe or ineffective, which would also result in adverse publicity as well as in costs connected to the recall and loss of revenue.On April 29, 2014, the FDA issued a statement proposing to reclassify surgical mesh for transvaginal pelvic organ prolapse repair from Class II to Class III. Further, the FDA proposed to reclassify urogynecologic surgical mesh instrumentation from Class I to Class II, and to establish special controls for surgical instrumentation for use with urogynecologic surgical mesh. The FDA stated that it was proposing these changes based on the tentative determination that general controls by themselves are insufficient 25Table of Contentsto provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of these devices. Although this proposal was subject to a 90 day comment period, to date the FDA has not taken further action regarding these proposals. Additionally, AMS and, in certain cases, the Company or certain of its other subsidiaries, have been named as defendants in multiple lawsuits in various federal and state courts alleging personal injury resulting from use of transvaginal surgical mesh products designed to treat pelvic organ prolapse and stress urinary incontinence. As of December 31, 2014, AMS and certain plaintiffs’ counsel representing mesh-related product liability claimants have entered into various Master Settlement Agreements (MSAs) regarding settling up to approximately 45,400 filed and unfiled mesh claims handled or controlled by the participating counsel. These MSAs, which were executed at various times from June 14, 2013 through December 31, 2014, were entered into solely by way of compromise and settlement and are not in any way an admission of liability or fault by the Company or AMS. As of December 31, 2014, the Company's product liability accrual for vaginal mesh cases totaled $1.66 billion for all known pending and estimated future claims related to vaginal mesh cases. We may be subject to additional liabilities arising out of these cases, and are responsible for the cost of managing these cases. We cannot assure you that a product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any claim is brought against us, regardless of the success or failure of the claim, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities or the cost of a recall. Additionally, we may be limited by the surviving insurance policies of our acquired subsidiaries. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to obtain other financing could affect our ability to pay the amounts due under these liabilities not covered by insurance.See Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15. of this report "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" for further discussion of our product liability cases.Most of our total revenues come from a small number of products, particularly in our U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals segment .The following table provides a breakdown of our revenues for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands). 2014 2013 2012 $ % of total revenue $ % of total revenue $ % of total revenueLidoderm®$157,491 5 $602,998 23 $947,680 34Opana® ER197,789 7 227,878 9 299,287 11Voltaren® Gel179,816 6 170,841 7 117,563 4Percocet®122,355 4 105,814 4 103,406 4Other brands311,986 11 286,484 11 210,048 7Total U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals*$969,437 34 $1,394,015 53 $1,677,984 60__________*Percentages may not add due to rounding.If we are unable to continue to manufacture or market any of our products, if any of them were to lose market share, for example, as the result of the entry of new competitors, particularly companies producing generic versions of branded drugs, or if the prices of any of these products were to decline significantly, our total revenues, profitability and cash flows would be materially adversely affected.Our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary and licensed third party technology, which is vital to our business, is uncertain.Our success, competitive position and future income will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection relating to the technologies, processes and products we are currently developing and those we may develop in the future. Our policy is to seek patent protection for technologies, processes and products we own and to enforce the intellectual property rights we own and license. We cannot assure you that patent applications we submit and have submitted will result in patents being issued. If an invention qualifies as a joint invention, the joint inventor or his or her employer may have rights in the invention. We cannot assure you that a third party will not infringe upon, design around or develop uses not covered by any patent issued or licensed to us or that these patents will otherwise be commercially viable. In this regard, the patent position of pharmaceutical compounds and compositions is particularly uncertain. Even issued patents may later be modified or revoked by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) by analogous foreign offices or in legal proceedings.We cannot assure you as to the degree of protection any patents will afford, whether the PTO will issue patents or whether we will be able to avoid violating or infringing upon patents issued to others or that others will not manufacture and distribute our patented products upon expiration of the applicable patents.26Table of ContentsAgreements between branded pharmaceutical companies and generic pharmaceutical companies are facing increased government scrutiny in the U.S. and abroad.We are involved in numerous patent litigations in which generic companies challenge the validity or enforceability of our products’ listed patents and/or the applicability of these patents to the generic applicant’s products. Likewise, our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment is also involved in patent litigations in which we challenge the validity or enforceability of innovator companies’ listed patents and/or their applicability to our generic products. Therefore, settling patent litigations has been and is likely to continue to be part of our business. Parties to such settlement agreements in the U.S., including us, are required by law to file them with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ) for review. The FTC has publicly stated that, in its view, some of these settlement agreements violate the antitrust laws and has brought actions against some brand and generic companies that have entered into such agreements. Accordingly, we may receive formal or informal requests from the FTC for information about a particular settlement agreement, and there is a risk that the FTC may commence an action against us alleging violation of the antitrust laws. Any adverse outcome of these investigations could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some members of Congress have proposed legislation that would limit the types of settlement agreements generic manufacturers can enter into with brand companies. In 2013, the Supreme Court, in FTC v. Actavis, determined that reverse payment patent settlements between generic and brand companies should be evaluated under the rule of reason, and provided limited guidance beyond the selection of this standard. Because the Court did not articulate a precise rule of lawfulness for such settlements, there may be extensive litigation over what constitutes a reasonable and lawful patent settlement between a brand and generic company. Recently, Endo was notified of multiple lawsuits purporting to be class actions brought by direct and indirect payers alleging that its settlement agreement with Watson (now Actavis) regarding the Lidoderm® patent litigation was unlawful and in violation of federal antitrust laws, as well as various state laws. Additional similar suits may be filed in the future. The impact of such pending and future litigation, legislative proposals and potential future Supreme Court review is uncertain and could adversely affect Endo’s business, financial condition and results of operations. On February 25, 2014, the Company’s subsidiary, EPI received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the FTC. The CID requests documents and information concerning EPI’s settlement agreements with Actavis and Impax relating to the Opana® ER patent litigation and its settlement agreement with Actavis relating to the Lidoderm® patent litigation, as well as information concerning the marketing and sales of Opana® ER and Lidoderm®. EPI intends to fully cooperate with the FTC’s investigation. At this time, EPI cannot predict or determine the outcome of this investigation or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of fines and penalties, if any, that might result from an adverse outcome. Any adverse outcome of this investigation could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting or have in the past promoted the “off-label” use of drugs or medical devices.In the United States and certain other jurisdictions, companies may not promote drugs or medical devices for “off-label” uses - that is, uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those that were approved or cleared by the FDA. Under what is known as the “practice of medicine,” physicians and other healthcare practitioners may prescribe drug products and use medical devices for off-label or unapproved uses, and such uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of medications, treatments or product uses, the FFDCA, and FDA regulations significantly restrict permissible communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products and medical devices by pharmaceutical and medical device companies. The FDA, FTC, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS-OIG), the DOJ and various state Attorneys General actively enforce laws and regulations that prohibit the promotion of off-label uses. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil fines, criminal fines and penalties, civil damages and exclusion from federal funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as potential liability under the federal False Claims Act and applicable state false claims acts. Conduct giving rise to such liability could also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by such conduct.Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA’s regulations and judicial case law allow companies to engage in some forms of truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning the off-label uses of their products. The Company has endeavored to establish and implement extensive compliance programs in order to instruct employees on complying with the relevant advertising and promotion legal requirements. Nonetheless, the FDA, HHS-OIG, the DOJ and/or the state Attorneys General, and qui tam relators may take the position that the Company is not in compliance with such requirements, and, if such non-compliance is proven, we may be subject to significant liability, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties and fines.We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. Consequently, potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our profitability.Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, goodwill and other intangibles comprised approximately 64% and 49%, respectively, of our total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets 27Table of Contentsare subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are subject to an impairment test at least annually. The procedures and assumptions used in our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment testing, and the results of our testing, are discussed in Part II, Item 7. of this report "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under the captions “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES” and “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS”.Events giving rise to impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries and often cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets occur.We are subject to various regulations pertaining to the marketing of our products and services.We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including prohibitions on the offer of payment or acceptance of kickbacks or other remuneration for the purchase of our products and services, including inducements to potential patients to request our products and services. Additionally, product promotion educational activities, support of continuing medical education programs, and other interactions with health-care professionals must be conducted in a manner consistent with the FDA regulations and the Anti-Kickback Statute. The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Due to recent legislative changes, violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute also carry potential federal False Claims Act liability. Because of the sweeping language of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, many potentially beneficial business arrangements would be prohibited if the statute were strictly applied. To avoid this outcome, the HHS-OIG has published regulations - known as safe harbors- that identify exceptions or exemptions to the statute’s prohibitions. Arrangements that do not fit within the safe harbors are not automatically deemed to be illegal, but must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for compliance with the statute. Additionally, many states have adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. Any such new regulations or requirements may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, may delay our introduction of new products, may adversely affect our total revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act. The U.S. government has enacted the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA) that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Company's operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. Many of our core products contain narcotic ingredients. As a result of reports of misuse or abuse of prescription narcotics, the sale of such drugs may be subject to new regulation, including the development of REMS, which may prove difficult or expensive to comply with, and we and other pharmaceutical companies may face lawsuits.Many of our core products contain narcotic ingredients. Misuse or abuse of such drugs can lead to physical or other harm. For example, in the past, reportedly widespread misuse or abuse of OxyContin®, a product of Purdue Pharma L.P., or Purdue, containing the narcotic oxycodone, resulted in the strengthening of warnings on its labeling. In addition, we believe that Purdue, the manufacturer of OxyContin®, faces or did face numerous lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, related to OxyContin® misuse or abuse. We may be subject to litigation similar to the OxyContin® suits related to any narcotic-containing product that we market.The FDA or the DEA may impose new regulations concerning the manufacture, storage, transportation, scheduling and sale of prescription narcotics. Such regulations may include new labeling requirements, the development and implementation of formal REMS, restrictions on prescription and sale of these products and mandatory reformulation of our products in order to make abuse more difficult. On September 27, 2007, Congress passed legislation authorizing the FDA to require companies to undertake post-approval studies in order to assess known or signaled potential serious safety risks and to make any labeling changes necessary to address safety risks. Congress also empowered the FDA to require companies to formulate REMS to confirm a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. On April 19, 2011, the FDA issued letters to manufacturers of long-acting and extended-release opioid drug products requiring them to develop and submit to the FDA a post-market REMS plan to require that training is provided to prescribers of these products, and that information is provided to prescribers that they can use in counseling patients about the risks and benefits of opioid drug use. We received a REMS notification letter from the FDA to develop the REMS education and training program for prescribers for our Opana® ER, morphine sulfate ER, and oxycodone ER drug products. On December 9, 2011, the FDA approved our interim REMS for Opana® ER, which was subsequently superseded by the class-wide extended-28Table of Contentsrelease/long-acting REMS approved on July 9, 2012. The goal of this REMS is to reduce serious adverse outcomes resulting from inappropriate prescribing, misuse and abuse of extended-release or long-acting opioid analgesics while maintaining patient access to pain medications. The REMS includes a Medication Guide, Elements to Assure Safe Use and annual REMS Assessment Reports. The Obama administration has also released a comprehensive action plan to reduce prescription drug abuse, which may include proposed legislation to amend existing controlled substances laws to require healthcare practitioners who request DEA registration to prescribe controlled substances to receive training on opioid prescribing practices as a condition of registration. In addition, state health departments and boards of pharmacy have authority to regulate distribution and may modify their regulations with respect to prescription narcotics in an attempt to curb abuse. In either case, any such new regulations or requirements may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, may delay our introduction of new products, may adversely affect our total revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The pharmaceutical and medical device industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business.Governmental authorities such as the FDA impose substantial requirements on the development, manufacture, holding, labeling, marketing, advertising, promotion, distribution and sale of therapeutic pharmaceutical and medical device products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures. With respect to pharmaceutical products, the submission of an NDA or ANDA to the FDA with supporting clinical safety and efficacy data, for example, does not guarantee that the FDA will grant approval to market the product. Meeting the FDA’s regulatory requirements to obtain approval to market a drug product typically takes many years, varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product, and the application process is subject to uncertainty. The NDA approval process for a new product varies in time, generally requiring a minimum of 10 months, but could also take several years from the date of application. The timing for the ANDA approval process for generic products is difficult to estimate and can vary significantly. NDA approvals, if granted, may not include all uses (known as indications) for which a company may seek to market a product. The FDA may also require companies to conduct post-approval studies. The FDA also requires companies to undertake post-approval surveillance regarding their drug products and to report adverse events.With respect to medical devices, such as those manufactured by AMS, before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed, it must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA, or premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) premarket clearance process, the FDA must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support a showing of substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Both the 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees in connection with FDA’s application review. The FDA also has authority under the FFDCA to require a manufacturer to conduct post-market surveillance of a Class II or Class III device. AMS’s currently commercialized products have received premarket clearance or PMA from the FDA under Section 510(k) or 515 of the FFDCA.See Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15. of this report "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules", for public health notifications regarding potential complications associated with transvaginal placement of surgical mesh to treat POP and SUI.Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, injunctions against the manufacture, holding, distribution, marketing and sale of a product, and civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. Meeting regulatory requirements and evolving government standards may delay marketing of our new products for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities and result in a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete against us.We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will approve or clear for marketing any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products.Based on scientific developments, post-market experience, or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current FDA standards of review for approving new pharmaceutical and medical device products, or new indications or uses for approved or cleared products, are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past. Some new or evolving FDA review standards or conditions for approval or clearance were not applied to many established products currently on the market, including certain opioid products. As a result, the FDA does not have as extensive safety 29Table of Contentsdatabases on these products as on some products developed more recently. Accordingly, we believe the FDA has expressed an intention to develop such databases for certain of these products, including many opioids.In particular, the FDA has expressed interest in specific chemical structures that may be present as impurities in a number of opioid narcotic active pharmaceutical ingredients, such as oxycodone, which based on certain structural characteristics and laboratory tests may indicate the potential for having mutagenic effects.More stringent controls of the levels of these impurities have been required and may continue to be required for FDA approval of drug products containing these impurities. Also, labeling revisions, formulation or manufacturing changes and/or product modifications may be necessary for new or existing products containing such impurities. The FDA’s more stringent requirements together with any additional testing or remedial measures that may be necessary could result in increased costs for, or delays in, obtaining approval for certain of our products in development. Although we do not believe that the FDA would seek to remove a currently marketed product from the market unless such mutagenic effects are believed to indicate a significant risk to patient health, we cannot make any such assurance.In addition, on September 27, 2007, through passage of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, Congress passed legislation authorizing the FDA to require companies to undertake additional post-approval studies in order to assess known or signaled potential serious safety risks and to make any labeling changes necessary to address safety risks. Congress also empowered the FDA to require companies to formulate REMS to confirm a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks.The FDA’s exercise of its authority under the FFDCA could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements and costs. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant safety or efficacy concerns or problems with a product in the same therapeutic class as one of our products that implicate or appear to implicate the entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of our product or, in some cases, result in product withdrawals. Likewise, manufacturing issues or problems at a supplier or third party manufacturer of our products could have an adverse effect on sales of our products, and could lead to product recalls or product shortages. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse at the user level, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or patient or trade organizations to recommend or publish guidance or guidelines related to the use of our products, which may lead to reduced sales of our products.The FDA and the DEA have important and complementary responsibilities with respect to our business. The FDA administers an application and post-approval monitoring process to assure that marketed products are safe, effective and consistently of uniform, high quality. The DEA administers registration, drug allotment and accountability systems to assure against loss and diversion of controlled substances. Both agencies have trained investigators that routinely, or for cause, conduct inspections, and both have authority to seek to enforce their statutory authority and regulations through administrative remedies as well as civil and criminal enforcement actions.The FDA regulates and monitors drug and device clinical trials to help provide human subject protection and the quality of clinical trial data used to support marketing applications. The FDA also regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market pharmaceutical and medical device products in the U.S. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the FDA and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA. Compliance with clinical trial requirements and cGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The FDA periodically inspects clinical trial operations, and both our third party and owned manufacturing facilities and procedures to assure compliance. The FDA may place a hold on a clinical trial, and may cause a suspension or withdrawal of product approvals if regulatory standards are not maintained. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug or medical device is required by the FDA to curtail or cease operations, or otherwise becomes inoperable, or a third party contract manufacturing facility faces manufacturing problems, obtaining the required FDA authorization to manufacture at the same or a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.The FDA is authorized to perform inspections under the FFDCA. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue formal notices that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A Form 483 Notice of Inspectional Observations may be issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA investigators believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a Warning Letter be issued only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. A third category of formal notice is an untitled letter, which may be issued as an initial correspondence that cites violations that do not meet the threshold of regulatory significance for a Warning Letter.During 2013 and 2014, the FDA has conducted various inspections at AMS’s Minnetonka, Minnesota facility; Qualitest’s liquids manufacturing facility in Huntsville, Alabama; Qualitest’s tablet manufacturing facility in Huntsville, Alabama and 30Table of ContentsQualitest’s solid dose manufacturing facility in Charlotte, North Carolina. Certain of these inspections resulted in Form 483 Notices of Inspectional Observations from the FDA. The Company has responded to the Form 483 Notices of Inspectional Observations and has implemented or is continuing to implement its corrective action plans as agreed with the FDA. On April 14, 2014, AMS received a Warning Letter from the FDA, dated April 10, 2014. The Warning Letter relates to matters reported as observations on the Form 483 Notice of Inspectional Observations issued on February 24, 2014. The Warning Letter states that the corrective actions which AMS reviewed with the FDA on March 20, 2014 appear to be adequate, but it goes on to state that many of the actions have not yet been completed and will need to be validated in a follow-up inspection. AMS responded to the Warning Letter on April 25, 2014 and is continuing to implement its corrective action plan as agreed with the FDA. AMS is committed to the submitted corrective action plan and expects to continue to make significant progress with respect to the implementation of this plan during the remainder of 2015, with completion of the proposed corrective actions expected to occur by the end of 2015.The stringent DEA regulations on our use of controlled substances include restrictions on their use in research, manufacture, distribution and storage. A breach of these regulations could result in imposition of civil penalties, refusal to renew or action to revoke necessary registrations, or other restrictions on operations involving controlled substances. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects the manufacturing facilities of our subsidiaries and manufacturing partners to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with product and thus, our ability to market affected products. This could have a negative impact on our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flows and competitive position. See also the risk described under the caption “The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development, as well as the production of these products, and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials.”We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or legal interpretations or requirements by the FDA or the courts, when and if promulgated or issued, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require different labeling, monitoring of patients, interaction with physicians, education programs for patients or physicians, curtailment of necessary supplies, or limitations on product distribution. These changes, or others required by the FDA or DEA could have an adverse effect on the sales of these products. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory science and regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of the FDA and the generally high level of regulatory oversight results in a continuing possibility that, from time to time, we will be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite our ongoing efforts and commitment to achieve and maintain full compliance with all regulatory requirements.Timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products as well as the FDA’s approval of products are uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of any of our new product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product. Likewise, we may not be able to demonstrate through clinical trials that a product candidate’s therapeutic benefits outweigh its risks. Even promising results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large scale trials. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy could or would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals.The rate of patient enrollment sometimes delays completion of clinical studies. There is substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical trials and such competition has delayed clinical development of our products in the past. For example, patients may not enroll in clinical trials at the rate expected or patients may drop out after enrolling in the trials or during the trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approval. In addition, we rely on collaboration partners that may control or make changes in trial protocol and design enhancements, or encounter clinical trial compliance-related issues, which may also delay clinical trials. Product supplies may be delayed or be insufficient to treat the patients participating in the clinical trials, or manufacturers or suppliers may not meet the requirements of the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, such as those relating to cGMP. We also may experience delays in obtaining, or we may not obtain, required initial and continuing approval of our clinical trials from institutional review boards. We cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or undesired results in these or any other of our clinical trials.We cannot assure you that the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will approve, clear for marketing or certify any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that such approval will not subject the marketing of our products to certain limits on indicated use. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not agree with our assessment of the clinical data or they may interpret it differently. Such regulatory authorities may require additional or expanded clinical trials. Any limitation on use imposed by the FDA or delay in or failure to obtain FDA approvals or clearances of products developed by us would adversely affect the marketing of these products and our ability to generate product revenue, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.31Table of ContentsBefore obtaining regulatory approvals for certain generic products, we must conduct limited clinical or other trials to show comparability to the branded products. A failure to obtain satisfactory results in these trials would prevent us from obtaining required regulatory approvals.The success of our acquisition and licensing strategy is subject to uncertainty and any completed acquisitions or licenses may reduce our earnings, be difficult to integrate, not perform as expected or require us to obtain additional financing.We regularly evaluate selective acquisitions and look to continue to enhance our product line by acquiring rights to additional products and compounds. Such acquisitions may be carried out through the purchase of assets, joint ventures and licenses or by acquiring other companies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions that meet our target criteria on satisfactory terms, if at all. In particular, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and we may have to compete for acquisition candidates.Our competitors may have greater resources than us and therefore be better able to complete acquisitions or may cause the ultimate price we pay for acquisitions to increase. If we fail to achieve our acquisition goals, our growth may be limited.Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. Any acquisitions we make may:•fail to accomplish our strategic objectives;•not be successfully combined with our operations;•not perform as expected; and•expose us to cross border risks.In addition, based on current acquisition prices in the pharmaceutical industry, acquisitions could decrease our net income per share and add significant intangible assets and related amortization or impairment charges. Our acquisition strategy may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in leverage, increased debt obligations as compared to equity, or dilution of ownership. We may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us.Further, if we are unable to maintain, on commercially reasonable terms, product, compound or other licenses that we have acquired, our ability to develop or commercially exploit our products may be inhibited.Our growth and development will depend on developing, commercializing and marketing new products, including both our own products and those developed with our collaboration partners. If we do not do so successfully, our growth and development will be impaired.Our future revenues and profitability will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to successfully commercialize new branded and generic pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a timely manner. As a result, we must continually develop, test and manufacture new products, and these new products must meet regulatory standards to receive requisite marketing authorizations. Products we are currently developing may or may not receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for us to market them. Furthermore, the development and commercialization process is time-consuming and costly, and we cannot assure you that any of our products, if and when developed and approved, can be successfully commercialized. Some of our collaboration partners may decide to make substantial changes to a product’s formulation or design, may experience financial difficulties or have limited financial resources, any of which may delay the development, commercialization and/or marketing of new products. In addition, if a co-developer on a new product terminates our collaboration agreement or does not perform under the agreement, we may experience delays and, possibly, additional costs in developing and marketing that product.We conduct research and development to enable us to manufacture and market pharmaceuticals and devices in accordance with specific government regulations. Much of our drug development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of applications to receive marketing authorization for these novel products are significantly greater than those expenses associated with generic products. As we continue to develop new products, our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in the healthcare industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful regulatory approval and introduction of new pharmaceutical products. Also, after we submit a regulatory application, the relevant governmental health authority may require that we conduct additional studies, including, depending on the product, studies to assess the product’s interaction with alcohol, and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably predict the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. 32Table of ContentsThe availability of third party reimbursement for our products is uncertain, and thus we may find it difficult to maintain current price levels. Additionally, the market may not accept those products for which third party reimbursement is not adequately provided.Our ability to commercialize our products depends, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of these products is available from government healthcare programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare, private health insurers and others. We cannot be certain that, over time, third party payment for our products will be adequate for us to maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment. Government payers, private insurers and other third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by (1) limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement (including adjusting co-pays) for products approved for marketing by the FDA, (2) refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval and (3) requiring or encouraging, through more favorable reimbursement levels or otherwise, the substitution of generic alternatives to branded products.In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical device products, which may impact whether customers purchase our products. Reimbursement rates vary depending on whether the procedure is performed in a hospital, ambulatory surgery center or physician’s office. Furthermore, healthcare regulations and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country, particularly in Europe. AMS has experienced lower procedure volume levels, particularly in Europe, as a result of recent “austerity measures” or budget reduction measures adopted by certain European countries in response to growing budget deficits and volatile economic conditions and may experience lower levels of reimbursement with respect to AMS’s products in the future as a result.Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and other governmental drug pricing programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions.We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including prohibitions on the offer of payment or acceptance of kickbacks or other remuneration in return for the purchase of our products. Sanctions for violating these laws include criminal penalties and civil sanctions and possible exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid, and other government healthcare programs. There can be no assurance that our practices will not be challenged under these laws in the future or that such a challenge would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.We also are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting the presentation (or the causing to be presented) of claims for payment (by Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers) that are determined to be false, fraudulent, or for an item or service that was not provided as claimed. These false claims statutes include the federal civil False Claims Act, which permits private persons to bring suit in the name of the government alleging false or fraudulent claims presented to or paid by the government (or other violations of the statutes) and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in the healthcare industry in recent years. These actions against healthcare companies, which do not require proof of a specific intent to defraud the government, may result in payment of fines and/or administrative exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid, and/or other government healthcare programs.We are subject to provisions that require us to enter into a Medicaid Drug Rebate Agreement and a 340B Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement as a condition for having our products eligible for payment under Medicare Part B and Medicaid. We have entered into such agreements. In addition, we are required to report certain pricing information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on a periodic basis to allow for accurate determination of rebates owed under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Agreement, ceiling prices under the 340B program and certain other government pricing arrangements, and reimbursement rates for certain drugs paid under Medicare Part B. On January 27, 2012, CMS issued a Proposed Rule to implement the Medicaid Drug Rebate provisions incorporated into the Healthcare Reform Law. The Proposed Rule has not been finalized yet, but we anticipate that if the Proposed Rule becomes final, it will require operational adjustments by the Company in order to maintain its compliance with applicable law. Changes included in the Proposed Rule that would revise how manufacturers are required to calculate Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) and Best Price, if they are included in the Final Rule may affect the quarterly amounts that the Company owes to state Medicaid programs through the Medicaid Drug Rebate program.We and other pharmaceutical companies are defendants in a number of lawsuits filed by local and state government entities, alleging generally that we and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable by state Medicaid programs, which are partially funded by the federal government. In addition, a predecessor entity of Qualitest Pharmaceuticals and other pharmaceutical companies are defendants in a federal False Claims Act lawsuit brought by a qui tam relator alleging the submission (or the causing of the submission) of false claims for payments to be made through state Medicaid reimbursement programs for unapproved drugs or non-drugs. We intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits to which we are a party. Depending on developments in the litigation however, as with all litigation, there is a possibility that we will suffer adverse decisions or verdicts of substantial amounts, or that we will enter into monetary settlements in one or more of these actions. Any unfavorable outcomes as a result of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.33Table of ContentsOur customer concentration may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We primarily sell our products to a limited number of wholesale drug distributors and large pharmacy chains. In turn, these wholesale drug distributors and large pharmacy chains supply products to pharmacies, hospitals, governmental agencies and physicians. Total revenues from customers who accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues during the three years ended December 31 are as follows: 2014 2013 2012Cardinal Health, Inc.17% 21% 25%McKesson Corporation26% 26% 26%AmerisourceBergen Corporation14% 15% 12%Revenues from these customers are included within our U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals, U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and International Pharmaceuticals segments. If we were to lose the business of any of these customers, or if any were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our total revenues, profitability and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.We are currently dependent on outside manufacturers for the manufacture of a significant amount of our products; therefore, we have and will continue to have limited control of the manufacturing process and related costs. Certain of our manufacturers currently constitute the sole source of one or more of our products, including Teikoku Seiyaku Co., Ltd. (Teikoku), our sole source of Lidoderm®.Third party manufacturers currently manufacture a significant amount of our products pursuant to contractual arrangements. Certain of our manufacturers currently constitute the sole source of our products. For example, Teikoku is our sole source of Lidoderm® and Grünenthal GmbH (Grünenthal) is our sole source of our crush-resistant formulation of Opana® ER. Because of contractual restraints and the lead-time necessary to obtain FDA approval, and possibly DEA registration, of a new manufacturer, replacement of any of these manufacturers may be expensive and time consuming and may cause interruptions in our supply of products to customers. As a result, any such delay could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Because many of our products are manufactured by third parties, we have a limited ability to control the manufacturing process or costs related to this process. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturers, interruptions in our supply of products or lapses in quality could adversely impact our margins, profitability and cash flows. We are reliant on our third party manufacturers to maintain the facilities at which they manufacture our products in compliance with FDA, DEA, state and local regulations. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA, DEA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to cease manufacturing, or product may be recalled, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, in December 2011, Novartis Consumer Health, Inc.’s Lincoln, Nebraska manufacturing facility was temporarily shut down to facilitate its implementation of certain manufacturing process improvements, resulting in short-term supply constraints for certain EPI analgesic products which had been manufactured at this facility prior to the shutdown. Additionally, if any facility that manufactures our products experiences a natural disaster, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to FDA and DEA regulation, violation of standards enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and their counterpart agencies at the state level, could slow down or curtail operations of third party manufacturers.In addition, we may consider entering into additional manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers. In each case, we will incur significant costs in obtaining the regulatory approvals and taking the other steps necessary to begin commercial production by these manufacturers. If the market for the products manufactured by these third parties substantially contracts or disappears, we will continue to be financially obligated under these contracts, an obligation which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are dependent on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We rely on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products. In addition, we rely on third party suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to provide services for certain core aspects of our business, including manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services. All third party suppliers and contractors are subject to FDA, and very often DEA, requirements. Our business and financial viability are dependent on the continued supply by these third party suppliers, the regulatory compliance of these third parties, and on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by our suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of 34Table of Contentsoperations and cash flows. In addition, we have entered into minimum purchase requirement contracts with some of our third party raw material suppliers. If the market for the products that utilize these raw materials substantially contracts or disappears, we will continue to be financially obligated under these contracts and meeting such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business.For example, our subsidiary AMS currently relies on single- or sole-source suppliers for certain raw materials and certain components used in its male prostheses, many of its female products, its GreenLight™ laser systems, and for the TherMatrx® disposables. These sources of supply could encounter manufacturing difficulties or may unilaterally decide to stop supplying AMS because of product liability concerns or other factors. We and AMS cannot be certain that we would be able to timely or cost-effectively replace any of these sources upon any disruption due to the need to qualify alternate designs or sources. Any interruption or failure by these sources to supply raw materials or components to AMS could have a material adverse effect on sales of AMS’s products.We are dependent upon third parties to provide us with various estimates as a basis for our financial reporting. While we undertake certain procedures to review the reasonableness of this information, we cannot obtain absolute assurance over the accounting methods and controls over the information provided to us by third parties. As a result we are at risk of them providing us with erroneous data which could have a material adverse impact on our business.If our manufacturing facilities are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.If any of our manufacturing facilities fail to comply with regulatory requirements or encounter other manufacturing difficulties, it could adversely affect our ability to supply products. All facilities and manufacturing processes used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products and medical devices must be operated in conformity with cGMP and, in the case of controlled substances, DEA regulations. Compliance with the FDA’s cGMP and DEA requirements applies to both drug products seeking regulatory approval and to approved drug products. In complying with cGMP requirements, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing facilities must continually expend significant time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control (and design control for medical devices) so that their products meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects our manufacturing facilities to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with product. Were we not able to manufacture products at our manufacturing facilities because of regulatory, business or any other reasons, the manufacture and marketing of these products would be interrupted. This could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flows and competitive position.The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development, as well as the production of these products, and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials.The DEA regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. The active ingredients in some of our current products and products in development, including oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl, and hydrocodone, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II or III substances under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. For example, generally, all Schedule II drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription.Furthermore, the DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development, as well as the production of these products, and we, or our contract manufacturing organizations, must annually apply to the DEA for procurement and production quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. As a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or to complete clinical trials. Moreover, the DEA may adjust these quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our quotas, or modification of our quotas, for controlled substances could delay or result in the stoppage of our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If we are unable to retain our key personnel, and continue to attract additional professional staff, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business.Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete with our current and future competitors will remain highly dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and commercial personnel. The loss of key scientific, technical and commercial personnel or the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and commercial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have 35Table of Contentsconsulting agreements with certain key individuals and institutions and have employment agreements with our key executives, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in retaining personnel or their services under existing agreements. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business.The trading prices of our securities may be volatile, and your investment in our securities could decline in value.The market prices for securities of healthcare companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, in 2014, our shares traded between $53.62 and $82.16 per share on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may cause the market value of our securities to fluctuate:•FDA approval or disapproval of any of the drug or medical device applications we have submitted;•the success or failure of our clinical trials;•new data or new analyses of older data that raises potential safety or effectiveness issues concerning our approved products;•product recalls;•competitors announcing technological innovations or new commercial products;•introduction of generic substitutes for our products, including the filing of ANDAs with respect to generic versions of our branded products;•developments concerning our or others’ proprietary rights, including patents;•competitors’ publicity regarding actual or potential products under development;•regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries, or announcements relating to these matters;•period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results;•new legislation in the U.S. relating to the development, sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals or medical devices;•a determination by a regulatory agency that we are engaging or have engaged in inappropriate sales or marketing activities, including promoting the “off-label” use of our products;•litigation; and•economic and other external factors, including market speculation or disasters and other crises.Our operations could be disrupted if our information systems fail or if we are unsuccessful in implementing necessary upgrades.Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and networks, hardware and software systems and our other information technology. If our systems were to fail or we are unable to successfully expand the capacity of these systems, or we are unable to integrate new technologies into our existing systems, our operations and financial results could suffer.The regulatory approval process outside the U.S. varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements, and failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent the marketing of our products in those jurisdictions.We have worldwide intellectual property rights to market many of our products and product candidates and intend to seek approval to market certain of our products outside of the U.S. To market our products in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory authorization and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval of a product by the regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing that product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The non-U.S. regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth herein and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign regulatory authorities in one country ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or the FDA. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue from abroad will be adversely affected.36Table of ContentsAMS could be adversely affected by special risks and requirements related to its medical products manufacturing business.AMS is subject to various risks and requirements associated with being a medical equipment manufacturer, which could have adverse effects. These include the following:•the need to comply with applicable FDA and foreign regulations relating to cGMP and medical device approval, clearance or certification requirements, and with state licensing requirements;•the need for special non-governmental certifications and registrations regarding product safety, product quality and manufacturing procedures in order to market products in the European Union, i.e. EN ISO certifications;•the fact that in some foreign countries, medical device sales are strongly determined by the reimbursement policies of statutory and private health insurance companies, i.e., if insurance companies decline reimbursement for AMS’s products, sales may be adversely affected;•potential product liability claims for any defective or allegedly defective goods that are distributed; and•the need for research and development expenditures to develop or enhance products and compete in the equipment markets.We are subject to health information privacy and data protection laws that include penalties for noncompliance.The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data security continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data security issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business. This includes federal and state laws and regulations in the United States as well as in Europe and other markets. There has also been increased enforcement activity in the United States particularly related to data security breaches. A violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to penalties, fines and/or possible exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid. Such sanctions could materially and adversely affect Endo.The expanding nature of the Company’s business in global markets exposes us to risks associated with adapting to emerging markets and taking advantage of growth opportunities.The globalization of the Company’s business, including in Mexico, and the increased volume of operations and profits through Litha Health Care Group Limited (Litha) in South Africa, may expose the Company to increased risks. Any difficulties in adapting to emerging markets and/or a decline in the growth of emerging markets could impair the Company’s ability to take advantage of growth opportunities in these regions and affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.The expansion of our activities in emerging markets may further expose us to more volatile economic conditions, political instability and competition from companies that are already well established in these markets and the inability of the Company to adequately respond to the unique characteristics of these markets, particularly with respect to their regulatory frameworks, the difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel, potential exchange controls, weaker intellectual property protection, higher crime levels and corruption and fraud, could have a material adverse effect on our the business.The Company’s policies and procedures, which are designed to help the Company, its employees and its agents comply with various laws and regulations regarding corrupt practices and anti-bribery, cannot guarantee protection against liability for actions taken by businesses in which we invest. Failure to comply with domestic or international laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in the approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, or the imposition of criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.From a financial reporting perspective, differences in banking systems and business cultures could have an adverse effect on the efficiency of internal controls over financial reporting matters. Given the significant learning curve to fully understand the emerging markets’ business, operating environment and the quality of controls in place, the Company may not be able to adequately assess the efficiency of internal controls over financial reporting or the effects of the laws and requirements of the local business jurisdictions.Many jurisdictions require specific permits or business licenses, particularly if the business is considered foreign. These requirements may affect the Company’s ability to carry out its business operations in the emerging markets.Our international operations could expose us to various risks, including risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.In 2014, 2013 and 2012, 15.6%, 6.8% and 6.2%, respectively, of our total revenues were from sources outside the U.S. Some of these sales were to governmental entities and other organizations with extended payment terms. A number of factors, including differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political or economic instability in the countries where the Company does business, could affect payment terms and the Company’s ability to collect foreign receivables. We have little influence over these factors and changes could have a 37Table of Contentsmaterial adverse impact on our business. In addition, foreign sales are influenced by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the Canadian dollar, euro, South African rand, Mexican peso, British pound, Australian dollar, and Swedish krona.The risks of selling and shipping products and of purchasing components and products internationally may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.The sale and shipping of the Company’s products and services across international borders is subject to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations, such as various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws, customs and import laws, and anti-boycott laws. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including, but not limited to, imprisonment of individuals, fines, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities.In addition, some countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries sell products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. The Company’s international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:•the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations;•the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;•the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity;•economic instability or disruptions, including local and regional instability, or disruptions due to natural disasters, such as severe weather and geological events;•changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;•the imposition of new trade restrictions;•imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors;•scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us;•pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;•laws and business practices favoring local companies;•difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and•exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in several foreign countries.We cannot provide assurance that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Additionally, we are experiencing fluidity in regulatory and pricing trends as a result of the Healthcare Reform Law. Any material decrease in the Company’s international sales would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.We have indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness.We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we have total debt of approximately $4.36 billion in aggregate principal amount. This debt primarily consists of $2.75 billion of senior notes, $1.49 billion of secured term loan indebtedness and $98.8 million of convertible senior subordinated notes. As of December 31, 2014, we have availability of approximately $750.0 million under our revolving credit facility, not including an up to $1.00 billion uncommitted expansion option available under our 2014 Credit Facility, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. In January 2015, certain of our subsidiaries issued an additional $1.20 billion of senior notes in connection with the acquisition of Auxilium. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may:•make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;•limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;•require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;•limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.38Table of ContentsDespite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including potential additional secured indebtedness pursuant to the uncommitted expansion option under our 2014 Credit Facility, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to which our outstanding notes would be effectively subordinated. The terms of the indentures limit, but not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, but these limits are subject to significant exceptions and do not limit liabilities that do not constitute debt. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many ways.The indentures governing the notes and the agreements governing the 2014 Credit Facility and other outstanding indebtedness subject us to various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:•incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;•issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;•pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;•make loans, investments and capital expenditures;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;•sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;•enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness, including the 2014 Credit Facility and/or the notes.We are a holding company with no direct operations and depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.We are a holding company with no direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we hold in our operating subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of the operations necessary to fund payments on our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our subsidiaries’ cash flow and their payment of funds to us. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make payments to us will depend on:•their earnings;•covenants contained in our debt agreements and the debt agreements of our subsidiaries;•covenants contained in other agreements to which we or our subsidiaries are or may subsidiaries are or may become subject;•business and tax considerations; and•applicable law, including state laws regulating the payment of dividends and distributions.We cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries at any given time will be sufficient to make distributions or other payments to us or that any distributions and/or payments will be adequate to pay principal and interest, and any other payments our indebtedness when due.Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly.A substantial portion of our borrowings under the 2014 Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to interest rate risks. We are exposed to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent that we fund our operations with short-term or variable-rate borrowings. As of December 31, 2014, our total aggregate principal of debt consists of approximately $1.49 billion of floating-rate debt. Based on this amount, a 1% rise in interest rates would result in approximately $14.9 million in incremental annual interest expense. If London Inter-Bank Offer rates (LIBOR) increase in the future, then our floating-rate debt could have a material effect on our interest expense.We may be unable to repay or repurchase amounts outstanding on our indebtedness at maturity.At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness, together with accrued and unpaid interest, will become due and payable. We may not have the funds to fulfill these obligations or the ability to refinance these obligations. If the maturity date occurs at a time when other arrangements prohibit us from repaying our indebtedness, we would try to obtain waivers of such prohibitions from the lenders and holders under those arrangements, or we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain the restrictions. If we could not obtain the waivers or refinance these borrowings, we would be unable to repay our indebtedness.39Table of ContentsTo service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or seek to obtain additional financing.We expect to obtain the funds to pay our expenses and the amounts due under our indebtedness primarily from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and make these payments thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to pay amounts due under our outstanding indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs, such as future capital expenditures. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing indebtedness, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the indentures governing the notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Any failure to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could negatively impact our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially adversely affect the value of our notes, our business, financial condition and other results of operations, and our ability to pay the amounts due under the notes and our other indebtedness.Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default under our outstanding indebtedness that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and our lenders could terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The instruments governing our debt contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under such instruments to become immediately due and payable as a result of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. An event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of other debt agreements. Upon acceleration of certain of our other indebtedness, holders of the notes could declare all amounts outstanding under the notes immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if the obligations thereunder were accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under the 2014 Credit Facility. If the lenders under the 2014 Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the obligations outstanding under the 2014 Credit Facility and our other indebtedness, including the notes. For a description of our indebtedness, see Note 13. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15. of this report "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules".The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that Endo should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the Paladin transaction.Although Endo is incorporated in Ireland, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may assert that it should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). A corporation is generally considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because Endo is an Irish incorporated entity, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 provides an exception pursuant to which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.Under Section 7874, Endo would be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if the former shareholders of EHSI own (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of Endo shares by reason of holding shares in Endo (the ownership test). The former EHSI shareholders owned less than 80% (by both vote and value) of the shares in Endo after the Paladin merger by reason of their ownership of shares of Endo ordinary shares. As a result, under current law, Endo is expected to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, there can be no assurance that there will not exist in the future a subsequent change in the facts or in law which might cause Endo to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including with retrospective effect. Further, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied. There is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874 of the Code, including with respect to the provisions regarding the application of the ownership test. Endo’s 40Table of Contentsobligation to complete the Paladin transactions was conditional upon its receipt of the Section 7874 opinion from Skadden, dated as of the closing date and subject to certain qualifications and limitations set forth therein, to the effect that Section 7874 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder should not apply in such a manner so as to cause Endo to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes from and after the closing date. However, an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS or a court. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not take a position contrary to Skadden’s Section 7874 opinion or that a court will not agree with the IRS in the event of litigation.The effective rate of taxation upon our results of operations is dependent on multi-national tax considerations.We earn a portion of our income outside the United States. That portion of our earnings is taxed at the more favorable rates applicable to the activities undertaken by our subsidiaries outside of the United States. Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the United States, subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or in their application or interpretation could increase our effective tax rate and negatively affect our results of operations. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and other taxes. There have been proposals to reform U.S. tax laws and several of the proposals being considered, if enacted into law, could have a material adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and tax arrangements by the IRS and other tax and governmental authorities. For example, our transfer pricing has been the subject of IRS audits, and may be the subject of future audits by the IRS or other tax authorities and we may be subject to tax assessments or the reallocation of income among our subsidiaries. Likewise, the European Union may challenge our arrangements in European Union member states and attempt to force the member states to collect additional income taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provisions, which are subject to significant discretion. Although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of audits and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. Future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially adversely affect the Company.Under current law, Endo is expected to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, changes to the rules in Section 7874 of the Code or regulations promulgated thereunder or other guidance issued by the Treasury or the IRS, could adversely affect Endo’s status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to Endo, EHSI, and/or their respective shareholders and affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals would expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on Endo.In addition, the U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and other Government agencies in jurisdictions where Endo and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations and there are several current legislative proposals that, if enacted, would substantially change the U.S. federal income tax system as it relates to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which Endo and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially and adversely affect Endo.Section 7874 likely will limit Endo’s and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by certain specified transactions for a period of time following the Paladin transaction.Following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that this limitation will apply and as a result, Endo currently does not expect that it or its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain specified taxable transactions.The Company may not be able to successfully maintain its low tax rates, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.Endo is incorporated in Ireland and also maintains subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Mexico and South Africa. The IRS and other taxing authorities may challenge the Endo structure and transfer pricing arrangements. Responding to or defending such a challenge could be expensive and consume time and other resources, and divert management’s time and focus from operating the Endo business. Endo cannot predict whether taxing authorities will conduct an audit challenging Endo’s structure and 41Table of Contentsarrangements, the cost involved in responding to any such audit and resulting litigation, or the outcome. If Endo is unsuccessful, it may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could require Endo to reduce its operating expenses, decrease efforts in support of its products or seek to raise additional funds, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Endo business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.Certain of Endo’s recently acquired subsidiaries were not previously subject to the compliance obligations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and Endo may not be able to timely and effectively implement controls and procedures over their operations as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.Endo’s recently acquired subsidiaries, Paladin and Somar, were not previously subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, and the compliance obligations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Endo must timely and effectively implement the internal controls necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and an integrated report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Endo intends to take appropriate measures to establish or implement an internal control environment across its various subsidiaries, including Paladin and Somar, aimed at successfully adopting the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, it is possible that Endo may experience delays in implementing or be unable to implement the required internal financial reporting controls and procedures, which could result in enforcement actions, the assessment of penalties and civil suits, failure to meet reporting obligations and other material and adverse events that could have a negative effect on the market price for Endo ordinary shares.Any attempted takeovers of the Company are subject to Irish Takeover Rules and subject to review by the Irish Takeover Panel.The Company is subject to Irish Takeover Rules, under which Endo’s board of directors will not be permitted to take any action which might frustrate an offer for Endo ordinary shares once it has received an approach which may lead to an offer or has reason to believe an offer is imminent. Risks Related to the Transaction with AuxiliumLoss of key personnel could impair the integration of the two businesses, lead to loss of customers and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products or otherwise adversely affect the operations of Endo and Auxilium.The success of the combined company will depend, in part, upon its ability to retain key employees, especially during the integration phase of the businesses of Endo and Auxilium. Employees of Endo might experience uncertainty about their future roles with Endo following completion of the merger, which might materially and adversely affect Endo’s ability to retain key managers and other employees. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. If the combined company loses key personnel or is unable to attract, retain and motivate qualified individuals or the associated costs to the combined company increase significantly, the Endo’s business could be materially and adversely affected. Endo may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. The combined company may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses.The ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, to a large extent, on its ability to integrate the businesses of Endo and Auxilium. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, Endo will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating Auxilium’s business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the business and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect its results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: •diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; •difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination of the businesses of Endo and Auxilium; •difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; •difficulties in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; 42Table of Contents•difficulties in the assimilation of employees; •difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; •challenges in retaining existing customers and obtaining new customers; •potential unknown liabilities or larger liabilities than projected, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger; and •difficulties in coordinating a geographically dispersed organization. Many of these factors will be outside the control of Endo, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of Endo and Auxilium are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Endo and Auxilium. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of Endo and Auxilium will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. The benefits of the merger are also subject to a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond Endo’s ability to control, such as changes in the rate of economic growth in jurisdictions in which the combined company will do business, the financial performance of the combined business in various jurisdictions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies, including changes in interest rates, and tax law of the jurisdictions in which the combined company will do business. The impact of these factors, individually and in the aggregate, is difficult to predict, in part because the occurrence of the events or circumstances described in such factors may be interrelated, and the impact to the combined company of the occurrence of any one of these events or circumstances could be compounded or, alternatively, reduced, offset, or more than offset, by the occurrence of one or more of the other events or circumstances described in such factors. Endo will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the merger. Endo will incur substantial expenses over a period of time following the completion of the merger. Endo further expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of Auxilium. While Endo has assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond Endo’s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by Endo.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.43Table of Contents