Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this “Risk Factors” section to “our hotels,” “our rooms” and similar phrases refer to hotels that we own or franchise. Risks related to our business and industry We are subject to the business, financial, and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce profits and limit opportunities for growth. Our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: • changes in operating costs, including energy, food, compensation, benefits, insurance and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events; • increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset by price and fee increases in our business; • changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; • the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; • significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health coverage, such as costs associated with the implementation of the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; 20 Table of Contents • shortages of labor or labor disruptions; • the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and our franchisees to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; • delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or renovation projects; • the quality of services provided by franchisees; • the financial condition of franchisees; • relationships with franchisees, including the risk that our franchise agreements may be terminated early; • changes in desirability of particular geographic locations and shortages of desirable locations for development; • changes in lodging preferences and travel patterns of our guests and geographic concentration of our operations and guests; • changes in the supply and demand for hotel services; • foreign tax treaties, or lack thereof, with the U.S.; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations or restructurings; • decreased business travel as a result of improvements to the alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted on-line or over private teleconferencing networks; and • the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain guests. Any of these factors could limit or reduce the prices we and our franchisees are able to charge for rooms. These factors can also increase costs or affect the ability to develop new hotels or maintain and operate existing hotels. As a result, any of these factors can reduce our profits and limit opportunities for growth. Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for rooms at hotels that we own or franchise. Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for rooms at hotels that we own or franchise. These factors include, but are not limited to: • changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the U.S. or global economy and financial markets; • war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; • outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as measles, Ebola, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and H1N1 (swine flu); • natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, oil spills and nuclear incidents; • decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business; • low consumer confidence, high levels of unemployment or depressed real estate prices; • the financial condition and general business condition of the airline, automotive, and other transportation-related industries and its impact on travel; • decreased airline capacities and routes; • travel-related accidents; 21 Table of Contents • oil prices and travel costs; • statements, actions or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; • climate change and resource scarcity, such as water and energy scarcity; • domestic and international political and geo-political conditions; and • cyclical over-building in the hotel and lodging industries. These factors, and the reputational repercussions of these factors, can adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual hotels, particular regions and our business, financial condition and results of operations as a whole. Any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand, or the rates that we are able to charge, for rooms. Declines in ADR and occupancy relating to declines in consumer demand will lower RevPAR and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these factors could increase our operating costs or affect our ability to develop or franchise new hotels or to maintain and operate our existing hotels. Contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. Consumer demand for our rooms is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Decreased demand can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. Declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions could negatively impact our business by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned hotels and limiting the amount of franchising fee revenues we are able to generate from our franchised hotels. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2009, our revenues declined approximately $136 million, or 17%, from revenues of $816 million for the year December 31, 2008, and our Adjusted EBITDA declined approximately 30%. In addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. During a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Additionally, recent global economic conditions have significantly affected consumer confidence and behavior and, as a result, historical financial results may be less effective as a means of predicting future demand and operating results. Uncertainty regarding the rate and pace of recovery from the recent economic downturn and the impact any such recovery may have on different regions of the world makes it difficult to predict future profitability levels. Moreover, if further economic weakness in the markets in which we operate were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues and negatively affect our profitability. Because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. Competition for hotel guests The segments of the hotel industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. La Quinta is a select-service hotel brand that competes primarily against other select-service hotels in both the upper-midscale and the midscale segments. However, our owned and franchised hotels generally operate in segments that contain numerous competitors, including a wide range of lodging facilities offering full-service, select-service and all-suite lodging options. Hotels in other market segments, such as full-service hotels, may lower their rates to a level comparable to those of select-service hotels such as ours that, in turn, may further increase competitive pressure in our segments. Our owned and franchised hotels generally compete for guests on the basis of room rates, quality of accommodations, name recognition, service levels, convenience of locations and reward program 22 Table of Contents offerings. Additionally, an increasing supply of hotel rooms in La Quinta’s market segments, and consolidations in the lodging industry generally, have resulted in the creation of several large, multi-branded hotel chains with diversified operations and greater marketing and financial resources than we have, which has increased competition for guests in the segments in which our owned and franchised hotels operate. If we are unable to compete successfully for hotel guests, our revenues or profits may decline. Competition for franchise agreements A primary component of our growth strategy entails increasing our system-wide portfolio of franchised hotels and further growing our franchise fee-based business. We compete for franchise agreements based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, the room rate that can be realized, royalty fees charged and other contract terms. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources, greater brand distribution and awareness and/or offer greater financial incentives than we do. Other competitive factors for franchise agreements include relationships with hotel owners and investors, including institutional owners of multiple hotels, availability and affordability of financing, marketing support, reservation and e-commerce system capacity and efficiency and the ability to make investments that may be necessary to obtain franchise agreements. The terms of our franchise agreements for each of our franchised hotels are also influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. As a result, the terms of new franchise agreements in the future may not be as favorable as our current franchise agreements. For example, competition may require us to reduce or change fee structures, make greater use of key money or provide other financial incentives such as loans and guarantees to franchisees and/or reduce the level of hotel improvements required to conform to brand standards. In addition, if the availability of suitable locations for new hotels decreases, planning or other local regulations change or the availability or affordability of financing is limited, the supply of suitable hotels for franchising could be diminished. Additionally, an excess supply of hotel rooms or unfavorable borrowing conditions may discourage potential franchisees from expanding or constructing new hotels, thereby limiting a source of growth of the franchise fees received by us. Our franchise agreements generally restrict our ability to open a new owned or franchised hotel in a limited area near the franchised hotel, which can range from several city blocks in an urban area to several square miles in less populated areas. We may be prohibited from franchising or owning hotels in areas where opportunities exist due to these restrictions. If the hotels that we franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, or if the availability of suitable hotels is limited, our ability to compete effectively for new franchise agreements could be reduced. If we are unable to compete successfully for franchisees, our revenues or profits may decline. Any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brand could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. The success of our hotel business and our ability to attract and retain guests and franchise partners depends on brand recognition and reputation. Such dependence makes our hotel business susceptible to reputational damage and to competition from other hotel management and franchise companies. Additionally, for our franchised hotels, the continued success of a hotel owner’s business and its ability to make payments to us may directly depend on the strength and reputation of our franchised hotels and our brand. We cannot assure you that the prior performance of our owned or franchised hotels will be indicative of future results or that competition from other brands will not adversely affect our market position or financial performance. In addition, the brand recognition and support that provide much of the basis for the successful operation of our owned hotels and our franchise business can also mean that changes or problems with La Quinta (e.g., changes in ownership or management or management practices, or acts or omissions that adversely affect our business), or within our hotel business or at other locations (e.g., crime, scandal, litigation, negative publicity, catastrophic fires or similar events or accidents and injuries or other harm to our guests or our team members) can have a substantial negative impact on the operations of otherwise successful individual locations, and can 23 Table of Contents cause a loss of consumer confidence in La Quinta and other hotels in our segment. Adverse incidents have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents. We could also face legal claims and adverse publicity from a variety of events or conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brand declines, our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into La Quinta hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. As of December 31, 2014, we had a total of 207 franchised hotels in our pipeline, each of which is represented by an executed 20-year franchise agreement. Approximately 86% of the pipeline represents new construction, rather than the conversion of an existing hotel, and, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 29% of the conversions and new construction has commenced. The commitments of owners and developers with whom we have agreements are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our pipeline not currently under construction is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the ability of the franchisee to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals and adequate financing. As a result, we cannot assure you that our entire pipeline will develop into new hotels. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business and future operating results. Our efforts to renovate, redevelop or develop our hotels could be delayed or become more expensive, which could reduce profits or impair our ability to compete effectively. We must maintain and renovate our hotels to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of these hotels and comply with applicable laws and regulations. From time to time we evaluate our hotels to determine whether additional capital expenditures are required and will provide an acceptable return on investment. Our strategy includes maintenance and renovation of our hotels and may include redevelopment, development and conversion of hotels, which is subject to a number of risks, including: • the inability to obtain financing upon favorable terms or at all; • construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials) that may increase project costs; • lack of availability of rooms for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; • changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; • the inability to find appropriate, strategically located hotels at commercially reasonable prices; • obtaining zoning, occupancy, and other required permits or authorizations; • governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; • force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, or tsunamis; and • design defects that could increase costs. Furthermore, we generally rely heavily on local contractors, who may be inadequately capitalized or understaffed. The inability or failure of one or more local contractors to perform its obligations may result in construction or remodeling delays, increased costs and loss of revenues. As a result, we may not increase our revenues or generate expected profits and cash flows from the renovation, redevelopment or development of hotels. 24 Table of Contents If we are not able to begin operating hotels under renovation or development as scheduled, or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our ability to compete effectively could be diminished and revenues could be reduced. Further, due to the lengthy development cycle, adverse economic conditions may alter or impede our development plans, thereby resulting in incremental costs to us or potential impairment charges. If the cost of funding these renovations or developments exceed budgeted amounts, profits could be reduced. Moreover, during the early stages of operations, charges related to interest expense and depreciation may substantially detract from, or even outweigh, the profitability of certain new hotel investments. Our hotels are geographically concentrated, which exposes our business to the effects of regional events and occurrences. We have a concentration of hotels in Texas, Florida and California. Specifically, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 42% of rooms in our system were located in Texas, Florida and California with approximately 25% of rooms in our system located in Texas. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 29% of our pipeline properties are to be located in Texas. The concentration of hotels in one region or a limited number of markets may expose us to risks of adverse economic developments that are greater than if our portfolio were more geographically diverse. These economic developments include regional economic downturns, significant increases in the number of our competitors’ hotels in these markets and potentially higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which we are concentrated. For example, given our concentration of hotels in Texas, a downturn in the oil and gas industry could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our hotels are subject to the effects of adverse acts of nature, such as winter storms, hurricanes, hail storms, strong winds, earthquakes and tornados, which have in the past caused damage such as flooding and other damage to our hotels in specific geographic locations, including in the Texas, Florida and California markets. Depending on the severity of these acts of nature, the damage to our hotels could require us to close all or substantially all of our hotels in one or more markets for a period of time while the necessary repairs and renovations, as applicable, are undertaken. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the amount of our hurricane, windstorm, earthquake, flood or other casualty insurance we maintain from time to time would entirely cover damages caused by any such event. As a result of our geographic concentration of hotels, we will face a greater risk of a negative impact on our revenues in the event these areas are more severely impacted by adverse economic and competitive conditions and extreme weather than other areas in the United States. The hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations. The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. The periods during which our hotels experience higher revenues vary from hotel to hotel, depending principally upon location. Generally, our hotel revenues are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. The timing of holidays can also impact our quarterly results. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue, profit margins and net earnings. Additionally, our first quarter results may be further adversely affected by the timing of certain of our marketing production expenditures. In addition, the opening of newly constructed or franchised hotels and the timing of any hotel acquisitions or dispositions may cause a variation of revenue from quarter to quarter. The seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is capital intensive and our failure or the failure of our franchisees to make necessary investments could adversely affect the quality and reputation of our brand. The hotels in our owned portfolio have an average age of 27 years, and the hotels in our franchise portfolio have an average age of 14 years. For our owned and franchised hotels to remain attractive and competitive, we and the owners of our franchised hotels have to make periodic investments to keep the hotels well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for capital. We and the owners of our franchised 25 Table of Contents hotels may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our franchise agreements. To the extent that owners of franchised hotels and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by the operation of the hotels, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained, which may be difficult to obtain. Failure to make the investments necessary to maintain or improve hotels, act in accordance with applicable brand standards or project a consistent brand image could adversely affect the quality and reputation of our brand. If our franchisees are unable to access the capital necessary to implement plans for growth, including our existing pipeline, our revenues may be reduced and our ability to compete effectively may be diminished. Our franchisees depend on capital to buy and develop new franchised hotels, and our franchisees may be unable to access capital as expected. The availability of funds for development depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors. Instability in the worldwide financial markets and the contraction of available liquidity may constrain the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. As a result, while lenders have shown willingness to work with borrowers to extend relief in the short to medium term, many current and prospective hotel owners may struggle to find new hotel financing on commercially viable terms. The inability of our existing or future franchisees’ to obtain adequate funding could result in the decrease, delay or stoppage of development of new franchised hotels, including our existing pipeline. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our franchisees, revenues could decrease and we may be unable to expand our presence. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 59% of the La Quinta-branded hotels were operated as franchised hotels. Our franchisees pay us a franchise fee and certain other fees pursuant to our franchise agreements. The viability of the franchising business depends on our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with our franchisees. Franchisees are focused on maximizing the value of their investment and working with a franchisor that can help them be successful in the ownership of their respective hotel investments. The value of our brand and the rapport that we maintain with our franchisees affect renewals of existing agreements and are important factors for potential franchisees considering doing business with us. Our relationships with franchisees generate additional hotel development opportunities that support growth. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with franchisees, we may be unable to renew existing franchise agreements or expand relationships with them. Additionally, opportunities for developing new relationships with additional franchisees may be adversely affected. This, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to execute our growth strategy. Franchise agreement standards are important to protecting our brand reputation and perception, and if our franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their hotels, guest preference for the La Quinta brand and reputation could suffer or the franchise agreements with those parties could terminate. Substantially all of our franchise agreements require our franchisees to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining brand integrity and reputation and protecting the quality guests ascribe to the La Quinta brand. We depend on our franchisees to comply with these requirements by maintaining and improving hotels through investments, including investments in furniture, fixtures, equipment, amenities, personnel and branding elements. Franchisees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of their agreements with us. If our franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the hotels that we franchise, guest preference for our brand and our reputation could suffer. Moreover, our franchisees may be unwilling or unable to incur the cost of complying with brand standards as brand standards may evolve from time to time. In addition, if our franchisees breach the terms of their agreements with us, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these hotels and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. We may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. These risks become more pronounced during economic downturns. 26 Table of Contents Contractual and other disagreements with franchisees could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. Our franchise agreements require us and our franchisees to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. At any given time, we may be in disputes with one or more of our franchisees. Any dispute we have with our franchisees could result in arbitration or litigation, which could be very expensive for us even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. We cannot predict the outcome of any such arbitration or litigation, the effect of any adverse judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any franchisee. An adverse result in any such proceeding could adversely impact our results of operations and prospects. If our franchise agreements terminate prematurely or expire in accordance with their terms, our revenues could decrease and our costs could increase. Our franchise agreements may be terminated, renegotiated or expire, but typically have an initial term of 20 years. The continuation of a franchise agreement is subject to the franchisee adhering to certain standards and other applicable terms and conditions (including the obligation to pay certain fees to us). While our franchise agreements generally provide for liquidated damages to be paid to us by franchisees whose agreements have been terminated as the result of a violation of the provisions of the agreement, these damage amounts are typically less than the fees we would have received if the terminated franchisee fulfilled its contractual obligations. Our franchise agreements also typically contain provisions permitting either party to terminate the franchise agreement after five, ten or fifteen years under certain circumstances without payment of damages. These agreements also provide early termination rights to the franchisees upon the failure to meet a specified performance test, which is typically based on the hotel’s occupancy rates. Franchisees also may attempt to terminate franchise agreements with us prior to their scheduled expiration date. If that happens, we may have difficulty recovering any resulting damages from the owner or replacing the revenues lost as a result of the termination. In addition, if a franchisee files for bankruptcy or goes into receivership, our franchise agreements may be terminable under applicable law. If any of our franchise agreements are terminated or expire, we cannot assure you that we can obtain new or replacement franchise agreements at the same time that those other agreements are terminated or expire. As a result, we could lose the revenues we derive from that agreement or incur costs related to ending our relationship with the franchisee. Deterioration in the general financial condition of our franchisees may adversely affect our results. Our operating results are impacted by the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at hotels they franchise from us. Our franchisees compete for guests with other hotels in their geographic markets. Some of their competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than our franchisees, and they may construct new hotels or improve their existing hotels, reduce their prices or expand and improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our franchisees’ operating results and financial condition. In addition, the ability of our franchisees to compete for guests directly impacts the desirability of our brand to current and prospective franchisees. These factors, among others, could adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees. This could result in the financial failure of our franchise owners and result in a termination of the franchisee for non-payment of franchise fees and/or declines in franchise fees and other revenues derived from our franchising business. 27 Table of Contents If our franchisees are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by the mortgaged hotels, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Many of the hotels owned by our franchisees are pledged as collateral for mortgage loans entered into when such hotels were purchased or refinanced by them. If our franchisees are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the hotel. Debt defaults could lead franchisees to sell the hotel on unfavorable terms or to convey the mortgaged hotels to the lender. Any such sale or conveyance could, in certain cases, result in the termination of our franchise agreements or eliminate any anticipated income and cash flows from such hotel, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned real estate, which could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. Real estate ownership is subject to risks not applicable to franchised and managed hotels, including: • governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; • loss in value or functionality, or unanticipated liabilities, due to environmental conditions, governmental takings, uninsured casualties or restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; • changes in tax laws and property taxes, even if the hotel level cash flows remain the same or decrease; • increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned hotels; • the ongoing need for owner funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade hotels; • periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and hotel improvements; • risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; • risks associated with the possibility that cost increases will outpace revenue increases and that in the event of an economic slowdown, the high proportion of fixed costs will make it difficult to reduce costs to the extent required to offset declining revenues; • acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, winter storms and other natural disasters (that may result in uninsured losses); • fluctuations in real estate values or potential impairments in the value of our assets; and • maintaining tenants for leased properties. Additionally, real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, cannot be purchased or sold rapidly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Buyers may not be identified quickly or be able to secure suitable financing to consummate a transaction or we may not be able to sell hotels on terms favorable to us. Furthermore, sales of certain appreciated hotels could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may affect our ability to sell hotels in response to market conditions and adversely affect our ability to generate cash flows. Any of the forgoing risks could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. 28 Table of Contents Changes in local market or neighborhood conditions may diminish the value of real property. Hotels may be difficult to convert to other uses if changes in market conditions or in the area in which the hotel is located make hotel use unattractive for any reason. In such cases, large capital investments in real estate may prove difficult to recover. Hotels may be completely undamaged, but may lose significant value that cannot be recovered through insurance or operational changes because of disasters occurring nearby. The negative impact on profitability and cash flow generation from a decline in revenues is more pronounced in owned hotels because we, as the owner, bear the risk of their high fixed-cost structure. The need to maintain and renovate owned hotels can present challenges, especially when cash generated from operations has declined due to decreased revenues or increased costs, or when government regulations or other factors require expenditures on property improvements that cannot be recovered through rate increases. The effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts is limited by the fixed-cost nature of our business. As a result, we may not be able to offset revenue reductions through cost cutting, which could further reduce our margins. Further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values. In an unfavorable market, we may not be able to sell hotels in the short term. Accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. Similarly, unfavorable markets may make it difficult to refinance mortgage debt as it comes due. Failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. The hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for hotel management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our loyalty program, distribution of hotel resources to current and future guests and guest amenities. These technologies require refinements, including compliance with privacy regulations and requirements of third parties such as the payment card industry. The development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant capital. We cannot assure you that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or in a cost-effective and timely manner. We also cannot assure you that we will achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. Failures in, material damage to, or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites, including as a result of cyber-attacks, and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. For example, we own, license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology and systems for hotel management, procurement, reservations, phone switches and the operation of our Returns program. Those systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural and manmade disasters. In particular, from time to time we and third parties who serve us experience cyber-attacks, attempted breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or cyber-attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides liability and insurance coverages, subject to limitations and conditions of the policies, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all losses or costs related to any future breaches of our systems. Damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with 29 Table of Contents maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. Any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our website, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, costs and technical issues as we upgrade our website software, computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Failure of third party technology providers or vendors to provide services and technology in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide and the provision of information technology and business process services. The success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. If we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of our information technology systems so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests’ personal information. We are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with U.S. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. We collect and maintain information relating to our employees and guests for various business purposes, including managing our workforce and marketing and promotion purposes of our hotel business. Our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information. A significant number of guest purchases are made using credit cards. Additionally, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 19.7% of our guest reservations are placed through our website, including through mobile devices and those reservations made via LQ Instant Hold. In order for our business to function successfully, we must be able to handle and transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may subject us to increasingly demanding or inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies may increase our operating costs and/or adversely affect our ability to service hotel guests and market our products, hotels and services to hotel guests. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations, with our own privacy policies or with third-party requirements (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), or a breach of security in which personal data are compromised, could result in fines, litigation, adverse reputation impacts, remedial and other expenses, criminal sanctions, or 30 Table of Contents restrictions on the use or transfer of data, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that our business will always be conducted in compliance with these laws, regulations and policies. Even if we are fully compliant with such legal standards, we may not be able to prevent security breaches involving guest transaction data and identity theft. In addition, efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data all threaten our information systems and records. Our reliance on computer, Internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased in recent years. Any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or Company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our website and choose not to purchase from us. If a computer hacker or other criminal is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and action for damage and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings. Any further restrictions in laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, and various U.S. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies. We also obtain access to potential guests from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships. We market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies’ marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new guests, and introduce them to our hotels could be impaired. The growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. A significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests is booked through internet travel intermediaries. We contract with such intermediaries and pay them various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their system. Recently bookings through internet travel intermediaries have been increasing. As such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us or our franchisees. Moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. Further, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality at the expense of brand identification. Consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries’ websites and reservations systems rather than to the La Quinta brand. If this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed as shifting guest loyalties divert bookings away from our websites, or as the fees charged by third-party websites increase the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. Consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, and the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our website and increase our hotels’ cost of sales. In addition, recent class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies challenges the legality under antitrust law of certain provisions in contracts with third party intermediaries. While the travel intermediaries and lodging companies are vigorously defending this litigation and believe the contract provisions are lawful, the courts will ultimately determine this issue and an adverse outcome could force hotel companies, including us, to alter their business arrangements with these third parties which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our reservation system is an important component of the La Quinta brand and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our hotels. We license software from unaffiliated third parties for the La Quinta hotels reservation system. Losing these licenses may adversely affect our ability to maintain a technically adequate reservations system, which, in the absence of suitable alternatives, would inhibit our ability to conduct our business (including our ability to attract and retain franchise arrangements) and, ultimately, diminish our ability to generate revenue. We manage a reservation system that communicates reservations to our owned and franchised hotels that have been made by individuals directly, either online or by telephone to our call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. The cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system, as well as protection of personal or confidential information of its users, are important aspects of the business and are major considerations of franchisees in choosing to affiliate with the La Quinta brand. Any degradation of, failure of adequate development relative to, or security breach of, our reservation system may adversely affect our business. Our reservation system relies on data communications networks operated by unaffiliated third parties. Any significant interruption of the function of our reservation system (or significant parts of our reservation system) may adversely affect our business as well as our ability to generate revenues. The cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our Returns loyalty program could adversely affect the La Quinta brand and guest loyalty. We manage the Returns program for the La Quinta brand. Our owned and franchised hotels contribute a percentage of the guest’s room rate per night to the program for each hotel stay of a Returns program member. We arrange with service providers such as airlines to exchange monetary value represented by points for program awards and we may charge a license fee to such service providers for use of the La Quinta brand trademarks. Returns program members accumulate points based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits, including free rooms, airline miles and other items of value. The Returns program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under franchise agreements. Currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. If the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed and, as a result, a material number of Returns members choose to stay at non-La Quinta-branded hotels, our business could be adversely affected. Any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could reduce the value of our brand and harm our business. The recognition and reputation of our brand are important to our success. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered; however, we cannot assure you that those trademark or other intellectual property registrations will be granted or that the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other intellectual property in the United States and other jurisdictions will always be adequate to prevent third parties, including former employees, from copying or using the trademarks or other intellectual property without authorization or in a manner where authorization may not be required. We may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for our brand in all jurisdictions. For example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. In addition, “la quinta” is a commonly used term in Central and South America and, as such, we may face greater difficulty protecting our “La Quinta” registered trademarks in those regions. Third parties in those countries may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. Defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important intellectual 32 Table of Contents property rights. Obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. See “Item 1. Business—Our trademarks.” Our intellectual property is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the United States, where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not adequately protect it. If our trademarks or other intellectual property are misappropriated, or otherwise used in a manner where authorization may not be required, the La Quinta brand, including its value and reputation, could be harmed. We monitor the unauthorized copying or use of intellectual property in the United States and other countries in which we operate or plan to operate. However, it is difficult to protect against every possible unauthorized use of our trademarks or other intellectual property and there are times where we have resorted, and may in the future resort, to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. In addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. For example, we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable hotel. If a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could potentially be harmed. Negative publicity relating to the franchisee or licensee could also be incorrectly associated with us, which could harm our business. Failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property would likely adversely affect the ability of our hotels to generate revenues or our ability to enter into new franchise agreements. Third-party claims that we infringe patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or misappropriate trade secrets of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. Third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. Any such claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • force us to stop using the intellectual property that is being challenged, or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; • force us to rebrand our services; • divert management’s attention and resources; • force us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other agreements to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property; • limit the use or the scope of our intellectual property or other rights; • force us to pay significant damages; and • limit where we can open future hotels. In addition, we may be required to indemnify franchisees for any losses they incur as a result of any such infringement claims. All necessary royalty, licensing or other agreements may not be available to us at all or on acceptable terms. Any costs, lost revenues, changes to our business or diversion of management attention related to intellectual property claims against us, whether successful or not, could adversely affect our business. 33 Table of Contents Because a component of our strategy is to continue to grow our franchise business internationally, the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. At December 31, 2014, eight of our 514 franchised hotels were located outside of the United States, which represents approximately 2% of our total franchised hotels. We expect to increase the number of franchised hotels located outside of the United States in the coming years, with approximately 11% of our pipeline relating to hotels located outside the United States. As a result, we are and will be, on an increasing basis, subject to the risks of doing business outside the United States, including: • recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; • the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax effective manner; • the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets; • the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws; • the ability to comply with, or impact of complying with, complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, licensing requirements and regulations, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; • uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; • the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; • rapid changes in governmental, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; • increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of the licensed brands as an American brand; • forced nationalization of franchised hotels by local, state or national governments; • the effect of disruptions caused by severe weather, natural disasters, outbreak of disease or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; and • political and economic instability. Any or all of these factors may adversely affect the income from and the market value of our hotels located in international markets. In addition, the economy of any region in which our hotels are located may be adversely affected to a greater degree than that of other areas of the country or the world by certain developments affecting industries concentrated in that region or country. A decline in the general economic condition in regions or countries in which our hotels are located could result in a decrease in hotel demand in the region, and the income from and market value of these hotels may be adversely affected. Over time, room rates in regions can fluctuate and have historically fluctuated widely. While these factors and the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business, and as our international operations increase, these risks will become more pronounced. A number of our owned hotels are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we could be adversely affected. Eighteen of our owned hotels are either completely or partially on land subject to ground leases. If we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or ground sublease, such ground lease or sublease could be terminated. Assuming that we exercise all available options to extend the terms of our ground leases and ground subleases, all of our ground leases and ground subleases will expire between 2017 and 2102, with one expiring in the next 34 Table of Contents three years. However, in certain cases, our ability to exercise such options is subject to the condition that we are not in default under the terms of the ground lease or ground sublease, as applicable, at the time that we exercise such options and/or the time such extension occurs, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to exercise our options at such time. Furthermore, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to renew our ground leases and ground subleases upon expiration. If a ground lease or ground sublease expires or is terminated, we would be unable to derive income from such hotel, which could adversely affect us. If an appropriate opportunity becomes available, we may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and hotels, or through alliances. We may also seek to divest some of our hotels and other assets. These acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management’s attention. We may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, hotels or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of franchised hotels. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. Acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, hotels or assets as well as these alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: • issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; • spending cash and incurring debt; • assuming contingent liabilities; or • creating additional expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. There may be high barriers to entry in certain key markets and scarcity of available development and investment opportunities in desirable locations. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or that the ability to obtain financing will not be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. The success of any such acquisitions or investments also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. We may experience difficulty with integrating acquired businesses, hotels or other assets, including difficulties relating to: • coordinating sales, distribution, and marketing functions; • integrating technology information systems; and • preserving the important guest, labor and other relationships of the acquired assets. Divestment of some of our hotels or assets may yield lower than expected returns. In some circumstances, sales of hotels or other assets may result in losses. Upon a sale of hotels or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material losses, including impairment charges, or tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. In addition, any acquisitions, investments, dispositions or alliances could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. Governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our hotels. The hotels that we and our franchisees operate are subject to extensive local, regional and national regulations and, on a periodic basis, must obtain various licenses and permits. The laws and regulations of states, 35 Table of Contents counties, cities, provinces and other political subdivisions may also require certain registration, disclosure statements and other practices with respect to the franchising of hotels. Any failure to identify, obtain or maintain required licenses and permits could result in adverse consequences. The hotel industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations in the United States and the other countries in which our franchised hotels operate, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food. Hotels and their owners and operators are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing their relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain of our hotels, we or our franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet federal, state and local regulations. For example, we may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), which requires that all public accommodations meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. If, pursuant to the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations to, and capital expenditures for, our hotels, including removal of access barriers, it could increase our expenditures and, in turn, could reduce our earnings. Any failure to obtain or maintain any such licenses or any publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of any such laws and regulations could result in injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could affect the operation of our hotels or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us and our franchisees. In addition, we may be subject to certain laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, including regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”). Many franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. Some franchise laws require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchisees. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the Commerce Department. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials or parties and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. OFAC and the Commerce Department administer and enforce economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. Some of our business operations are also subject to the laws and regulations of non-U.S. jurisdictions, including anti-corruption legislation in the countries in which we conduct operations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees or restrictions on our operation, ownership or franchising of hotels, including the termination of our franchise and ownership rights. These restrictions could increase our costs of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support our growth. In August 2012, Congress enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“ITRSHRA”), which expands the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran. More specifically, Section 219 of the ITRSHRA amended the Exchange Act to require companies subject to Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, reporting obligations under Section 13 of the Exchange Act to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions 36 Table of Contents engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. These companies are required to separately file with the SEC a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the SEC is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees. The U.S. President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. Under ITRSHRA, we would be required to report if we or any of our “affiliates” knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. Because the SEC defines the term “affiliate” broadly, we may be deemed to be a controlled affiliate of Blackstone, affiliates of Blackstone may also be considered our affiliates. Disclosure of such activity by us or our affiliates, even if such activity is not subject to sanctions under applicable law, and any sanctions actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and have a negative effect on our business. Foreign or U.S. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. We are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and U.S. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, and wastewater disposal. Our failure to comply with such laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. We could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, operated or franchised hotels or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. Some laws may regard us as having liability as an operator by virtue of how we may implement our franchise agreements, rendering us potentially responsible for addressing environmental or other conditions existing at our franchised hotels. In some cases, we may be entitled to indemnification from the party that caused the contamination, or pursuant to our franchise agreements, but there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any costs we incur in addressing such problems. From time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our hotels. The presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. Such claims and the need to investigate, remediate, or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected hotel, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such hotel, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. Environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs may increase as a result. For example, Congress, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our owned and franchised hotels or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us and our franchisees. Asbestos, lead-based paint, mold and other hotel related issues could expose us to substantial liability. Certain U.S. and foreign laws impose liability for the release of asbestos containing materials into the air or require the removal or containment of asbestos containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to toxic or hazardous substances. Some of our owned hotels may have asbestos containing materials, and if such materials are discovered, we are required to take action as and when required by applicable law. Such laws require that, as owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos, we must (i) properly manage and maintain the asbestos, (ii) notify and train certain employees regarding the presence of asbestos and the related hazards and (iii) undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during 37 Table of Contents renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on us if we fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers, which could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our earnings. In addition, certain laws impose liability for lead based paint, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with lead based paint. Limits are placed on the amount of lead that may be present in public drinking water supplies, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for injuries arising from exposure to high lead concentration. Other materials used in the construction of our owned hotels that are currently thought to be safe may in the future be determined to be hazardous, and could expose us to substantial liability for damages, injuries, adverse health effects or removal and disposal costs. In addition, other building supplies thought to be appropriate for their use, while not toxic, have been discovered to be defective (such as fire-retardant plywood or polybutylene piping). Defects in such supplies have resulted in substantial costs on the part of the owners or operators of affected hotels to remove and replace the defective materials. Materials currently thought to be appropriate or safe may in the future prove to be defective, and could result in substantial costs or losses. Problems associated with mold may pose risks to our hotels and also may be the basis for personal injury claims against us. There is no generally accepted standard for the assessment of mold. If left unchecked or inadequately addressed, the growth of mold could result in litigation and remediation expenses, or in a closure of some or all of a hotel, that could adversely affect revenues from an individual hotel. We have discovered that some of our owned hotels have problems with mold. The presence of mold at some of our owned hotels has required us to undertake a remediation program to remove the mold from the affected hotels. The cost of remediation to date has not been material. However, remediation costs may substantially increase if there is mold in our other hotels or if costs related to mold such as legal and insurance expense continue to increase rapidly, which could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our earnings. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified certain health risks associated with elevated radon gas in buildings, and has recommended that certain mitigating measures be considered. It is possible that other environmental conditions not currently known, or known but not currently thought to be dangerous, may in the future be determined to present a risk to health or safety, such as with respect to possible exposure to waterborne pathogens. Franchisees are exposed to the same risks with respect to the hotels that they own and operate. Additionally, some laws may regard us as having liability as an operator by virtue of how we may implement our franchise agreements, rendering us potentially responsible for addressing environmental or other conditions existing at our franchised hotels. Our franchise agreements typically require our franchisees to assume and indemnify us against such liabilities, but there can be no assurance that governmental authorities will not look directly to us to address such matters or that we would be able to recover from our hotel owners any costs we incur in doing so. For all of these reasons, the presence of, or potential for contamination by, such hazardous or toxic substances, or exposure to pathogens, at, on, under, adjacent to, emanating from, or in any of our hotels could materially adversely affect the operations, the value of such hotel or the ability to attract guests to such hotel, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. We are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. In the normal course of our business, we are often involved in various legal proceedings. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. Additionally, legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, employees or guests may adversely affect our financial results. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace 38 Table of Contents and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants through adverse judgments or settlement agreements. Similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we may also be engaged in lawsuits against franchisees. Similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others. The ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or legal proceedings could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior executives or key field personnel, such as general managers, could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends to a large degree on the efforts and skills of our senior executives. On average, our executive management team members have 19 years of experience in lodging and lodging related industries or have other relevant experience; however, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. Finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. We currently do not have a life insurance policy or key person insurance policy with respect to any of our senior executives. Losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with franchisees and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. We also rely on the general managers at each of our owned hotels to manage daily operations and oversee the efforts of their team members. These general managers are trained professionals in the hospitality industry and have extensive experience in many markets worldwide. The failure to retain, train or successfully manage general managers for our owned hotels could negatively affect our operations. Labor shortages and increase in minimum wage rates could restrict our ability to operate our hotels or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce our profits. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. If we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees, our ability to manage and staff the owned hotels adequately could be impaired, which could reduce guest satisfaction. In addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect our business. Staffing shortages also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. Because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our profits and the profits of our franchisees. In addition, increases in minimum wage rates could result in significantly increased costs and reduced profits for us and our franchisees. Higher health care costs and labor costs could adversely affect our business. With the passage in 2010 of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”), we are required to provide affordable coverage, as defined in the Act, to all employees, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria in the Act. Many of these requirements will be phased in over a period of time, with the majority of the most impactful provisions affecting us presently anticipated to begin in 2015. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Increased health care and insurance costs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition changes in federal or state workplace regulations could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial targets. 39 Table of Contents Attempts by labor organizations to organize groups of our employees or changes in labor laws could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on implementing our business strategies. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. We may become subject to collective bargaining agreements, similar agreements or regulations enforced by governmental entities in the future. Changes in the federal regulatory scheme could make it easier for unions to organize groups of our employees. If relationships with our employees become adverse, our hotels could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts and public demonstrations. Additionally, if such changes take effect, our employees could be subject to organizational efforts, which could potentially lead to disruptions or require our management’s time to address unionization issues. Labor regulation could also lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses and legal costs, and limit our ability to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. For example, on July 29, 2014, the general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) issued an opinion authorizing filing of charges against McDonald’s franchisees and their franchisor McDonald’s USA, LLC for certain labor law violations as joint employers, expanding the standard for evaluation of such potential joint liability from “actual control” to include “right to control.” In December 2014, such complaints were filed in 13 separate NLRB regions against McDonald’s USA, LLC and its franchisees. The complaints allege that certain franchisees violated the rights of employees working at McDonald’s restaurants at various locations around the country by, among other things, such franchisees making statements and taking actions against them for engaging in activities aimed at improving their wages and working conditions, including participating in nationwide fast food worker protests about their terms and conditions of employment. If McDonald’s is found jointly liable with its franchisees as a joint employer, it is possible that similar actions could be pursued against other franchisors with a significant number of franchisees, such as La Quinta. In that case, we may be held liable along with our franchisees for labor, minimum wage, wage and hour, union-organizing and other employment related violations committed by any of our franchisees against its employees. These or similar agreements, legislation or changes in regulations could disrupt our operations, hinder our ability to cross-train and cross-promote our employees due to prescribed work rules and job classifications, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business and operating strategies. If the insurance that we or our franchisees carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving our hotels, our profits could be reduced. We carry, and we require our franchisees to carry, insurance from insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first and third party losses and with terms and conditions that we believe are reasonable and customary. Nevertheless, market forces beyond our control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our franchisees can obtain or restrict our or our franchisees’ ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. In the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to reimburse us in full for our losses or pay the full value of financial obligations, liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property loss, which could adversely affect our profits. In addition, risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of the policies and certain types of losses that are significantly uncertain, or generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. If such losses or events occur, they could cause substantial damage to our hotels or our franchised hotels or the surrounding area, without any insurance coverage. Further, we and our franchisees may not be able to obtain or renew insurance policies or, if we or our franchisees are able to obtain or renew our coverage, it may be at a significantly higher cost than the historic cost. In addition, insurance coverage for our hotels and for casualty losses does not customarily cover damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages. As a result, any claims or legal proceedings, or settlement 40 Table of Contents of any such claims or legal proceedings that result in damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages may not be covered by our insurance. If these types of damages are substantial, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. In some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. As a result, we or our franchisees could lose some or all of the capital invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenues and profits from the hotel. We or our franchisees could suffer an uninsured or underinsured loss, and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover awards of damages resulting from claims made against us. Terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area, Congress passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which established the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (the “Program”) to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. The Program expired at the end of 2014 but was reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in January 2015 for six years through December 31, 2020. We carry insurance from insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. We purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. If there are changes to the Program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. Terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. The occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of guests to stay in or avail themselves of hotel services and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include intangible assets with an indefinite life, other intangible assets with finite useful lives, and substantial amounts of long-lived assets, principally property and equipment, including hotels. We analyze our assets for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. Our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. After performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. In connection with the ultimate disposition of certain our hotels, we determined that property and equipment related to these hotels were partially impaired primarily due to a decrease in assumed holding period, and in 2013, we recorded an impairment loss of approximately $19.5 million. In June 2014, we determined that the long-lived assets associated with one of our owned hotels were partially impaired primarily due to unfavorable expected terms of the upcoming underlying ground lease renewal and the likelihood of the Company abandoning the hotel upon expiration of the ground lease. As a result, we recorded an impairment loss of approximately $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. If the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on certain of these assets. During times of economic distress, 41 Table of Contents declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values. If any impairment losses we recognize are significant, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Changes in federal, state, local or foreign tax law or interpretations of existing tax law, or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and other countries and jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time, the U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation and could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. State and local tax authorities have also increased their efforts to increase revenues through changes in tax law and audits. Such changes and proposals, if enacted, could increase our future effective income tax rates. We are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in various jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and may be required to pay additional taxes. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) is currently auditing the tax returns of La Quinta Corporation, one of our former REITs prior to the Pre-IPO Transactions, and BRE/LQ Operating Lessee Inc., one of our former taxable REIT subsidiaries prior to the Pre-IPO Transactions, in each case for the tax years ended December 31, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. With respect to the audits of the 2010 and 2011 tax returns, we received a draft notice of proposed adjustment from the IRS on January 9, 2014, and the notice of proposed adjustment was issued to us on June 2, 2014. We submitted a timely response to the notice of proposed adjustment and, on July 7, 2014, we received an IRS 30-Day Letter proposing to impose a 100% tax on the REIT totaling $158 million for the 2010 and 2011 tax years. The IRS has asserted that the rent charged for these periods under the lease of hotel properties from the REIT to the taxable REIT subsidiary exceeded an arm’s length rent. In addition, the IRS proposed to eliminate $89 million of net operating loss carryforwards for the taxable REIT subsidiary for the tax years 2006 through 2009; however, in an IRS rebuttal received on September 26, 2014, the IRS conceded its proposed adjustment on this point was incorrect. We disagree with the IRS’ position with respect to rents charged by the REIT to its taxable REIT subsidiary and have appealed the proposed tax and adjustments to the IRS Appeals Office. In determining amounts payable by our taxable REIT subsidiary under the lease, we engaged a third party to prepare a transfer pricing study contemporaneous with the lease which concluded that the lease terms were consistent with an arm’s length rent as required by relevant provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), and applicable Treasury Regulations. We believe the IRS transfer pricing methodologies applied in the audits contain flaws and that the IRS proposed tax and adjustments are inconsistent with the U.S. federal tax laws related to REITs. We have concluded that the positions reported on our tax returns under audit by the IRS are, based on their technical merits, more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2014, we have not established any reserves related to this proposed adjustment or any other issues reflected on the returns under examination. If, however, we are unsuccessful in challenging the IRS, an excise tax would be imposed on the REIT equal to 100% of the excess rent. Such adjustments could also give rise to additional state income taxes. We expect that the IRS will review similar issues with respect to the 2012 and 2013 tax year audits. The IRS may also raise other issues in the course of examining our tax returns that could result in additional proposed adjustments. If the IRS were successful in its challenges, we could owe additional income taxes, interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the price of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Although neither we nor any of our subsidiaries has been a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes following the IPO, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the Existing Entities’ REIT status for previous years in which they elected REIT status. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the previous REIT status of any such entity, we may be required to pay additional taxes. Certain of the Existing Entities elected to be treated as REITs for United States federal income tax purposes for taxable years ended on and prior to the date of the IPO. Following consummation of the IPO, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries has been a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the Existing Entities’ REIT qualification for previous years in which they elected REIT status. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Although we believe that each of the Existing Entities that elected to be treated as a REIT met all of these requirements and qualified as a REIT in each of the years REIT status was elected, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the previous REIT status of any such entity, we could be liable for additional income taxes, interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the price of our common stock. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a revised exposure draft outlining proposed changes to current lease accounting in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“Codification” or “ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases” and certain of our owned hotels are located on land that is leased from third parties. The proposed Accounting Standards Update, if ultimately adopted in its current form, could result in significant changes to current accounting, including the capitalization of leases on the balance sheet that currently are recorded off balance sheet as operating leases. While this change would not impact the cash flow related to our leased hotels and other leased assets, it could adversely impact our balance sheet and could therefore impact our ability to raise financing from banks or other sources. Risks relating to our indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts and could expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable debt and divert our cash flow from operations to make debt payments. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.9 billion. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and pursue future business opportunities; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; 43 Table of Contents • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, hotel development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. In addition, we are a holding company and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. Revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. If our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. Moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. As a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. Our failure to make the required interest and principal payments on our indebtedness would result in an event of default under the agreement governing such indebtedness, which may result in the acceleration of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities will contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding two risk factors would increase. The credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities contains, and future debt agreements may contain, restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. The credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities contains operating covenants that limit the discretion of management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and make guarantees, create liens on assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers and consolidations, sell assets, make fundamental changes, pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make investments, loans and advances, 44 Table of Contents including acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, make changes in the nature of our business and make prepayments of junior debt. In addition, under our senior secured credit facilities, if, on the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters on or after June 30, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of revolving credit loans, swing line loans and/or letters of credit (excluding up to $20 million of letters of credit and certain other letters of credit that have been cash collateralized or back-stopped) that are issued and/or outstanding is greater than 25% of the revolving credit facility, the credit agreement requires the borrower to maintain a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio not to exceed 8.0 to 1.0. Additionally, the documents governing our future indebtedness may place additional restrictions on us and may require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our new credit agreement and future debt agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or non-compliance with any of these financial ratios and tests could result in an event of default under the debt agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Risks related to ownership of our common stock Our Sponsor may exercise significant influence over us and its interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future. As of February 20, 2015, our Sponsor beneficially owned approximately 45.2% of our common stock. Moreover, under our amended and restated bylaws and the stockholders’ agreement with our Sponsor, we have agreed to nominate to our board individuals designated by our Sponsor, whom we refer to as the “Sponsor Directors,” according to the following scale: (1) if our Sponsor continues to beneficially own at least 40% (but less than 50%) of our stock, the lowest whole number that is at least 40% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors; (2) if our Sponsor continues to beneficially own at least 30% (but less than 40%) of our stock, the lowest whole number that is at least 30% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors; (3) if our Sponsor continues to beneficially own at least 20% (but less than 30%) of our stock, the lowest whole number that is at least 20% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors; and (4) if our Sponsor continues to beneficially own at least 5% (but less than 20%) of our stock, the lowest whole number that is at least 10% of the total number of directors comprising our board of directors. We have four directors on our board that are current employees of our Sponsor and one director on our board that is a retired employee of our Sponsor. Although our Sponsor does not own shares of our stock representing a majority of our total voting power, our Sponsor is able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. Accordingly, our Sponsor has and will continue to have significant influence with respect to our affairs, including the appointment and removal of our officers. In particular, for so long as our Sponsor continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, our Sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. Our Sponsor engages in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in real estate generally and in the hospitality industry in particular. In the ordinary course of their business activities, our Sponsor may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our stockholders. For example, our Sponsor owns interests in Extended Stay America, Inc., Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and G6 Hospitality, LLC, and certain other investments in the hotel industry that may compete directly or indirectly with us. As a result, they could have interests that could conflict with ours. Additionally, some of our directors are, and our directors may in the future be, engaged in the hospitality industry. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of our Sponsor or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates has any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Our Sponsor also may pursue acquisition 45 Table of Contents opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our Sponsor may have an interest in having the Company pursue acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in the Company, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, increased costs, and are subject to additional regulations and requirements as a result of being a public company, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We have also incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and related rules implemented by the SEC. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. These rules and regulations have increased, and will increase, our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These laws and regulations also could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. In addition, beginning with our second annual report on Form 10-K, we will be required to furnish reports by management and our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed or operating. The process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time-consuming, costly, and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the NYSE, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We have no current plans to pay any cash dividends. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, level of indebtedness, capital requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements, other contractual restrictions and the terms of any preferred stock, our business prospects and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. 46 Table of Contents Future issuances of common stock by us, and the resale of shares held by our pre-IPO owners, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have approximately 1,869,100,000 shares of common stock authorized but unissued under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We are authorized to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for consideration and on terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. In the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of common stock. Any issuance of additional securities, including in connection with investments or acquisitions, may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, the sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. Substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock are available for resale in the public market, subject, in the case of shares held by our affiliates, as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. Registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, we have granted our Sponsor the right to cause us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering resales of our common stock held by them. These shares represented approximately 45.1% of our outstanding common stock as of February 20, 2015. These shares also may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to the limitations described above. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. We have reserved a total of 13,000,000 shares for issuance under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan. As of February 20, 2015, we have granted 1.5 million shares of our common stock in connection with outstanding vested and unvested equity awards under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan and an aggregate of 11.5 million shares of common stock were available for future issuance under such plan (which amount includes shares issuable upon settlement of time-vesting restricted stock units and performance-vesting stock). Any common stock that we issue, including under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by investors of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Accordingly, shares registered under such registration statement will be available for sale in the open market. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things: • although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the 47 Table of Contents issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our stockholders’ agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40% of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock unless such action is recommended in advance by all directors then in office; • these provisions provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our amended and restated bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and • these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 