ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risk Factors Related to Our RestructuringWe and certain of our subsidiaries filed for reorganization under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on February 14, 2016 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy cases. For the duration of the Bankruptcy cases, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include:•our ability to continue as a going concern;•our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions filed in the Bankruptcy cases from time to time;•our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate the Plan (or an alternative plan of reorganization) with respect to the Bankruptcy cases;•the ability of third parties to seek and obtain court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, to appoint a U.S. trustee or to convert the Bankruptcy cases to chapter 7 cases;•our ability to obtain and maintain normal payment and other terms with customers, vendors and service providers;•our senior management will be required to spend significant time and effort dealing with bankruptcy and restructuring activities rather than focusing exclusively on business operations;•our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations;•our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees through the process of reorganization, and to attract new employees;•our ability to retain key vendors or secure alternative supply sources;•our ability to fund and execute our business plan; and•our ability to obtain acceptable and appropriate financing. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Bankruptcy cases that may be inconsistent with our plans, and the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings may be higher than we expect. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Bankruptcy cases could adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and employees, as well as with customers, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we need Bankruptcy Court approval for transactions outside the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond timely to events or take advantage of opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the chapter 11 proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and there is no certainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern.We are not filing certain of our subsidiaries as part of the Bankruptcy cases. If we determine to file additional subsidiaries, it could delay the restructuring or impact our ability to effect the restructuring. In addition, the Noble Settlement Agreement is conditioned upon the effectiveness of the Bankruptcy cases. If we are unable to effect the restructuring as contemplated for any reason, the benefits of the Noble Settlement Agreement would not be realized. As a result of the Bankruptcy cases, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in 17Table of Contentsthe normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Further, the Plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our consolidated historical financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of reorganization. Our businesses could suffer from a long and protracted restructuring. Our future results are dependent upon the successful confirmation and implementation of the Plan. Failure to obtain this approval in a timely manner could adversely affect our operating results, as our ability to obtain financing to fund our operations may be harmed by protracted bankruptcy proceedings. If a liquidation or protracted reorganization were to occur, there is a significant risk that the value of our enterprise would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders. Furthermore, we cannot predict the ultimate amount of all settlement terms for the liabilities that will be subject to a plan of reorganization. Even once the Plan is approved and implemented, our operating results may be adversely affected by the possible reluctance of prospective lenders to do business with a company that recently emerged from bankruptcy proceedings. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan as outlined in the PSA, and our emergence from the Bankruptcy cases is not assured. There can be no assurance that the Plan as outlined in the PSA (or any other plan of reorganization) will be approved by the Bankruptcy Court, so we urge caution with respect to existing and future investments in our securities. There can be no assurances that we will receive the requisite votes to confirm the Plan. Moreover, we might receive official objections to confirmation of the Plan from the various bankruptcy committees and stakeholders in the Bankruptcy cases. We cannot predict the impact that any objection might have on the Bankruptcy Court’s decision whether to confirm the Plan. Any objection may cause us to devote significant resources in response which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our business and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us, including holders of our secured and unsecured debt and equity, would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. Our creditors would likely incur significant costs in connection with developing and seeking approval of an alternative plan of reorganization, which might not be supported by any of the current debt holders, various bankruptcy committees or other stakeholders. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. There can be no assurance as to whether we will successfully reorganize and emerge from the Bankruptcy cases or, if we do successfully reorganize, as to when we would emerge from the Bankruptcy cases. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition as a result of the Bankruptcy cases.As a result of the Bankruptcy cases, we may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and our employees likely will face considerable distraction and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could adversely affect our business and results of operations. While we implemented a key employee retention plan prior to bankruptcy, our ability to engage, motivate and retain key employees or take other measures intended to motivate and incent key employees to remain with us through the pendency of the Bankruptcy cases is limited by restrictions on implementation of incentive programs under the Bankruptcy Code. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, which would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness, which will not be fully discharged under the Plan as set forth in the PSA, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness. We have, and we will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, we had total indebtedness of approximately $2.6 billion. Under the Plan, we would still have in excess of $1 billion of total indebtedness following our emergence from bankruptcy.18Table of ContentsIn addition, if we take delivery of all three of the newbuild high specification jackup rigs under construction, we must pay approximately $600 million. This would likely require us to arrange a separate financing facility to fund this amount consistent with the negative covenants in our Debt Facilities.Our substantial indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the terms of our indebtedness and has had and could continue to have other material adverse consequences for our business, including: •requiring us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•further restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, dispositions or exploiting business opportunities;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds (even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity) or dispose of assets.Our ability to service and refinance our debt following our emergence from bankruptcy will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, it may be necessary to take actions such as to further reduce and delay planned capital expenditures or other business activities, or to seek additional capital or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to obtain additional capital or refinance our debt will depend on the conditions of the capital markets and our financial position at such time and may be further compromised by the additional negative covenants under the amendments to our Revolving Credit Agreement as contemplated by the Plan.We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Bankruptcy cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from specified debts arising prior to confirmation and specified debts arising afterwards. Under our proposed Plan, we would be discharged from any claims arising under the Senior Notes. Any claims not ultimately discharged by the Bankruptcy Court could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability after we emerge from bankruptcy. Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While in bankruptcy, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance after the date of the bankruptcy filing. In addition, if we emerge from bankruptcy, the amounts reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements may materially change relative to historical consolidated financial statements, a result of revisions to our operating plans pursuant to a plan of reorganization. In addition, if we emerge from bankruptcy, we may be required to adopt fresh start accounting. If fresh start accounting is applicable, our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date. The fair value of our assets and liabilities may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, if fresh start accounting is required, our financial results after the application of fresh start accounting may be different from historical trends.The chapter 11 filing could result in a material adverse tax effect for the Company upon emergence from bankruptcy. There is no assurance that the chapter 11 filing will not cause a material adverse tax effect for the Company. For example, it is possible that the ownership change upon emergence from bankruptcy could trigger with respect to the U.S. Debtors an annual limitation to the utilization of pre-existing net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes under the existing U.S. tax law. In addition, no assurance can be given that non-U.S. taxing authorities will respect the chapter 11 filing in Delaware, to qualify as a local country equivalent of “statutory insolvency arrangement,” and as a result, the Company could be subject to tax on discharge of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 19Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Business The worldwide demand for drilling services significantly declined as a result of the continued decline in oil prices. Our business is dependent on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry.Demand for drilling services depends on a variety of economic and political factors and the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development and production markets worldwide. Commodity prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect this level of activity, as well as dayrates for our services. However, higher prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity because our clients’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Oil and gas prices and the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: •the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; •potential acceleration in the development, and the price and availability, of alternative fuels; •increased supply of oil and gas resulting from growing onshore hydraulic fracturing activity and shale development; •worldwide production and demand for oil and gas, which are impacted by changes in the rate of economic growth in the global economy; •worldwide financial instability or recessions; •regulatory restrictions or any moratorium on offshore drilling; •expectations regarding future oil and gas prices; •the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; •the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; •available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; •oil refining capacity; •the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital;•the level of spending on E&P programs;•advances in exploration, development and production technology;•technical advances affecting energy consumption;•merger and divesture activity among oil and gas producers; •the availability of, and access to, suitable locations from which our customers can produce hydrocarbons; •rough seas and adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and typhoons; •tax laws, regulations and policies; •laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change; • the political environment of oil-producing regions, including uncertainty or instability resulting from civil disorder, an outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities or acts of war or terrorism; •the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; •the level of production in non-OPEC countries; and •the laws and regulations of governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves or speculation regarding future laws or regulations. Adverse developments affecting the industry as a result of one or more of these factors, including a decline in oil or gas prices, a global recession, reduced demand for oil and gas products and increased regulation of drilling and production, particularly 20Table of Contentsif several developments were to occur in a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.For instance, oil prices have declined substantially throughout 2015 and have continued to decline in 2016 as have forward, or “strip” prices. As a result, many of our customers have announced significant reductions to their capital spending budgets. Lower capital spending has greatly increased competitive pressure and has, and could continue to, adversely impact both our ability to secure new contracts for our drilling rigs and the dayrates we are paid. As a consequence, we could earn substantially less, experience lower levels of utilization and may be forced to idle, stack, or scrap rigs, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and lower day rates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable.The contract drilling industry is a competitive and cyclical business with intense price competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our profitability may be reduced. The offshore contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business characterized by high capital and operating costs and evolving capability of newer rigs. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Intense price competition, rig availability, location and suitability, experience of the workforce, efficiency, safety performance record, technical capability and condition of equipment, operating integrity, reputation, industry standing and client relations are all factors in determining which contractor is awarded a job. Our future success and profitability will partly depend upon our ability to keep pace with our customers’ demands with respect to these factors. Other drilling companies, including those with both high specification and standard specification rigs, may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to upgrade equipment and implement new technical capabilities before we can. If current competitors or new market entrants implement new technical capabilities, services or standards that are more attractive to our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to intense competition, our industry is highly cyclical. It has been especially cyclical with respect to the jackup market, where market conditions are subject to rapid change. There have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates, followed by periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand or excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and may result in some of our rigs being idle or earning substantially lower dayrates for long periods of time. Additionally, drilling contracts for our jackups generally have shorter terms than contracts for our floaters, meaning that most of our fleet does not have the benefits of the price protection that longer-term contracts provide. The volatility of the industry, coupled with the short-term nature of many of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, our industry, can affect the carrying value of our long-lived assets and negatively impact our results of operations. We are required to annually assess whether the carrying value of long-lived assets has been impaired, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change which could indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If management determines that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable, our results of operations could be impacted by additional non-cash impairment charges. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $1.1 billion and $37 million related to its property and equipment and goodwill, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.1 billion related to its property and equipment. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had no remaining goodwill. An over-supply of jackup rigs and floaters may lead to a reduction in dayrates and demand for our rigs and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Our industry recently exited a period of high utilization and high dayrates during which industry participants increased the supply of drilling rigs by building new drilling rigs, including some drilling rigs that have not yet entered service. Historically, this has often resulted in an oversupply of drilling rigs, which has contributed to a decline in utilization and dayrates, sometimes for extended periods of time. New fixtures for both standard and high specification jackup rigs and floaters have recently come under pressure as a result of a recent reduction in customer spending and the delivery of new rigs. The increase in supply created by the number and types of rigs being built, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could intensify price competition and require higher capital investment to keep our rigs competitive. According to a third-party industry source, as of February 22, 2016, the total non-U.S jackup fleet comprised 475 units (22 of which were cold stacked and three of which were “out of service”). An additional 125 jackup drilling rigs, including one being built in the U.S. and capable of operating internationally, were under construction, on order, or have been completed, but remain in the shipyard 21Table of Contentsawaiting work. These additional rigs could bring the total non-U.S. jackup fleet to 600 units (assuming no further newbuilds are ordered and delivered and there is no attrition of the current fleet). In addition, there are reported to be 70 floating rigs under construction, on order, or planned with deliveries between 2016 and 2020. To the extent that the drilling rigs currently under construction or on order have not been contracted for future work, there may be increased price competition as such vessels become operational, which could lead to a reduction in dayrates. Lower utilization and dayrates would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization or low dayrates could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable.Our standard specification rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification rigs.Our standard specification rigs lack certain capabilities and technology that can be found on higher specification rigs and that may increase the operating parameters and efficiency of higher specification drilling rigs. If the demand for offshore drilling rigs were to continue to decrease for a prolonged period of time, it is possible that higher specification rigs would begin to compete with standard specification rigs for the same contracts. In that case, higher specification rigs would have an advantage over standard specification rigs in securing those contracts and demand for and utilization of standard specification rigs may decrease. Such a decrease in demand for and utilization of standard specification rigs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Many of our competitors have fleets that include high specification rigs and may be more operationally diverse. Some of our customers, including Pemex, have expressed a preference for newer rigs and, in some areas, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than standard specification rigs such as ours. Our rigs are further constrained by the water depths in which they are capable of operating. In recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deepwater drilling programs and deeper formations, requiring higher specification jackup rigs, semisubmersibles or drillships. This trend could result in a decline in demand for standard specification rigs like ours, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The majority of our drilling rigs are more than 30 years old and may require significant amounts of capital for upgrades and refurbishment.The majority of our drilling rigs were initially put into service during the years 1976 to 1982 and may require significant capital investment to continue operating in the future, particularly as compared to their newer high specification counterparts. From time to time, some of our customers, including Pemex, express a preference for newer rigs. We may be required to spend significant capital on upgrades and refurbishment to maintain the competitiveness of our fleet in the offshore drilling market. In addition, our cold stacked rigs will require significant capital investment prior to re-entering service. The amount of capital investment required for reactivating these cold stacked rigs increases in relation to the amount of time that the rig remained cold stacked.Our rigs typically do not generate revenue while they are undergoing refurbishment and upgrades. Rig upgrade or refurbishment projects for older assets such as ours could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Further, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total rig value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we will have fewer rigs available for service or our rigs may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand for our fleet could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to comply with the financial covenants in our Revolving Credit Agreement, it would result in default under the Revolving Credit Agreement, which would result in an acceleration of repayment of all of our outstanding obligations under our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility.The amendments to our Revolving Credit Agreement contemplated by our proposed Plan as outlined by our PSA would require us to maintain a minimum liquidity of $110 million at all times (subject to a grace period if our minimum liquidity remains above $95 million) and, beginning in 2018, will require us to (i) maintain a certain net leverage ratio (defined as total debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, divided by earnings excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization charges) and (ii) a certain minimum interest coverage ratio (defined as earnings excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization charges divided by interest expense). Reduced activity levels in the oil and natural gas industry, such as we are currently experiencing, could negatively affect our financial position and adversely impact our ability to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with such covenants would result in an event of default under the proposed amended Revolving Credit Agreement if we are unable to obtain a waiver under such agreement. An event of default would result in our having to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the proposed amended Revolving Credit Facility and our Term Loan Facility. 22Table of ContentsOur business involves numerous operating hazards. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling business, including: •well blowouts; •fires; •collisions or groundings of offshore equipment; •punch-throughs; •mechanical or technological failures; •failure of our employees to comply with our internal environmental, health and safety guidelines; •pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which could release oil, gas or drilling fluids; •geological formations with abnormal pressures; •spillage handling and disposing of materials; and •adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons, winter storms and rough seas. These hazards could cause personal injury or loss of life, suspend drilling operations, result in regulatory investigation or penalties, seriously damage or destroy property and equipment, result in claims by employees, customers or third parties, cause environmental damage and cause substantial damage to oil and gas producing formations or facilities. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, and failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. Accordingly, the occurrence of any of the hazards we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to renew or replace existing contracts or the loss of a significant customer or contract could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Our ability to renew our customer contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on many factors beyond our control, including market conditions, the global economy and our customers’ financial condition and drilling programs. Moreover, any concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible termination or nonperformance of drilling contracts. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 61%, 57%, and 55% respectively, of our operating revenues. We do not expect Petrobras, which accounted for approximately 21% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, 23% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, and 17% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 to remain a significant customer in 2016. Our contract drilling backlog as of December 31, 2015 consists of $253 million, or approximately 25% of our total backlog attributable to contracts with Petrobras for operations offshore Brazil. Petrobras is contesting the term of each of our drilling contracts for the Paragon DPDS2 and the Paragon DPDS3 in connection with the length of prior shipyard projects relating to these rigs and released the Paragon DPDS2 effective September 29, 2015. The Paragon DPDS3 is currently expected to work until August 2016, according to Petrobras’ interpretation of the contract. As of December 31, 2015, the Paragon DPDS3 drilling contract constitutes $225 million of our contract drilling services backlog, which includes $142 million being contested by Petrobras. Our customers may generally terminate our term drilling contracts if a drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if we have to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. In the case of nonperformance and under certain other conditions, our drilling contracts generally allow our customers to terminate without any payment to us. The terms of some of our drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. These termination payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of a contract. Our drilling contract with Pemex allows early cancellation with 30 days or less notice to us without any early termination payment. Petrobras has the right to terminate its contracts in the event of downtime that exceeds certain thresholds. The early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time and a reduction in our contract backlog and associated revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts, especially those relating to our jackup rigs, are shorter term in nature, and many of our existing contracts will expire in 2016. Due to the recent decline in demand for our services, some of our rigs have completed contracts and remain idle, or have been stacked. When rigs complete a contract without a renewal contract in place, they may be idle or stacked for a prolonged period of time and may require a substantial amount of capital investment to resume operations. Any 23Table of Contentsnew contracts for such rigs may be at dayrates substantially below existing dayrates or on terms less favorable than existing contract terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our customers, which include many national oil companies, often have significant bargaining leverage over us. During periods of depressed market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers seeking to renegotiate or repudiate their contracts, including customers seeking to lower dayrates paid under existing contracts. In addition, our customers may attempt to use the Bankruptcy cases as a means to renegotiate or repudiate their contracts with us. Our customers’ ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts with us may also be adversely affected by restricted credit markets and economic downturns. If our customers cancel or are unable to renew some of their contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, if contracts are disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by our customers.We are exposed to credit risk with respect to our accounts receivable for services provided to our customers. If any of our customers have credit or financial problems, they may be unable to timely pay for services provided by us. Customers may also refuse to pay or delay payment for services provided by us for reasons that are beyond our control, especially during periods of depressed market conditions. Enforcement of contractual remedies against our customers may take many years, and even if ultimately resolved in our favor, may not result in payment for our services. Any such delay in payment or failure to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We are exposed to risks relating to operations in international locations.We operate in various regions throughout the world that may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: •seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; •monetary policies, government credit rating downgrades and potential defaults, and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; •limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital; •complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; •repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; •limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; •import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers and other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; •delays in implementing private commercial arrangements as a result of government oversight; •financial or operational difficulties in complying with foreign bureaucratic actions; •changing tax laws, regulations or policies; •other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control and that create operational uncertainty; •governmental corruption; •piracy; and •terrorist acts, war, revolution and civil disturbances. Further, we operate in certain less-developed countries with legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Examples of challenges of operating in these countries include: •potential restrictions presented by local content regulations in countries such as Nigeria or Angola; 24Table of Contents•ongoing changes in Brazilian laws related to the importation of rigs and equipment that may impose bonding, insurance or duty-payment requirements; and•procedural requirements for temporary import permits, which may be difficult to obtain. Our ability to mobilize our drilling rigs between locations and the time and costs of such mobilization could be material to our business.Our ability to mobilize our drilling rigs to more desirable locations may be impacted by governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs of moving a drilling rig, weather, political instability, civil unrest, military actions and the technical capability of the drilling rig to relocate and operate in various environments. In addition, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. If we relocate a rig to another geographic location without a customer contract, we will incur costs that will not be reimbursable by future customers, and even if we relocate a rig with a customer contract, we may not be fully compensated during the mobilization period. These impacts of rig mobilization could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Operating and maintenance costs of our operating rigs and costs relating to idle rigs may be significant and may not correspond to revenue earned.Our operating expenses and maintenance costs depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, costs of provisions, equipment, insurance, maintenance and repairs, and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control. Our total operating costs are generally related to the number of drilling rigs in operation and the cost level in each country or region where such drilling rigs are located. Equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the drilling rig is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. While operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate, costs for operating a rig may not be proportional to the dayrate received and may vary based on a variety of factors, including the scope and length of required rig preparations and the duration of the contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Any investments in our rigs may not result in an increased dayrate for or income from such rigs. A disproportionate amount of operating and maintenance costs in comparison to dayrates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.During idle periods, to reduce our costs, we may decide to “warm stack” a rig, which means the rig is kept fully operational and ready for redeployment, and maintains most of its crew. As a result, our operating expenses during a warm stacking will not be substantially different than those we would incur if the rig remained active. We may also decide to cold stack the rig, which means the rig is neither operational nor ready for deployment, does not maintain a crew and is stored in a harbor, shipyard or a designated offshore area. However, reductions in costs following the decision to cold stack a rig may not be immediate, as a portion of the crew may be required to prepare the rig for such storage. Cold stacked rigs may require significant capital expenditures to return them to operation, making reactivation of such assets more financially demanding. The amount of capital expenditures required to return the cold stacked rig to operation will increase in proportion to the amount of time the rig is cold stacked.Any violation of anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, or similar laws and regulations could result in significant expenses, divert management attention, and otherwise have a negative impact on us.We operate in countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, or U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws in other countries.As previously reported, our subsidiary used a commercial agent in Brazil in connection with Petrobras drilling contracts. The agent pleaded guilty in Brazil in connection with the award by Petrobras of a drilling contract to one of our competitors as part of a wider investigation of Petrobras’ business practices. The agent has represented a number of different companies in Brazil over many years, including several offshore drilling contractors. Following the news reports relating to the agent’s involvement in the Brazil investigation in connection with his activities with other companies, we have been conducting an independent review of our relationship with the agent and with Petrobras. We have contacted the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice to advise them of our internal review.Any violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our 25Table of Contentsbusiness, results of operations or financial condition. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with the certain laws and regulations could adversely impact our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: •the importing, exporting, equipping and operation of drilling rigs; •repatriation of foreign earnings; •currency exchange controls; •oil and gas exploration and development; •taxation of company earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and •use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. Legal and regulatory proceedings relating to the energy industry, and the complex government regulations to which our business is subject, have at times adversely affected our business and may do so in the future. Governmental actions and the market behavior of certain OPEC members may continue to cause oil price volatility. In some areas of the world, this activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil companies, which may continue. In addition, some governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete and our results of operations. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased regulations being either proposed or implemented. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations and permitting requirements might be adopted or become applicable to us, our rigs, our customers, our vendors or our service providers, and future changes in laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to post additional surety bonds to secure performance, tax, customs and other obligations relating to our rigs in jurisdictions where bonding requirements are already in effect and in other jurisdictions where we may operate in the future. These requirements would increase the cost of operating in these countries and may reduce our available liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation or increased permitting requirements. Legal proceedings or other matters against us, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, challenges to our permits by citizen groups and similar matters, might result in adverse decisions against us. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually, or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance.Shipyard projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.We currently have three high specification newbuild projects we acquired with our acquisition of Prospector. In addition, we may make significant repairs, refurbishments and upgrades to our fleet from time to time, particularly given the age of our fleet. Some of these expenditures will be unplanned. In addition, we may decide to construct new rigs or acquire rigs under construction. These projects and other efforts of this type are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays inherent in any large construction project as a result of numerous factors, including the following:•shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;•work stoppages and labor disputes;•unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment;26Table of Contents•local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials;•weather interferences;•difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions;•design and engineering problems;•inadequate regulatory support infrastructure in the local jurisdiction;•latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions;•unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel;•unanticipated actual or purported change orders;•client acceptance delays;•disputes with shipyards and suppliers;•delays in, or inability to obtain, access to funding;•shipyard availability, failures and difficulties, including as a result of financial problems of shipyards or their subcontractors; and•failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers.The failure to complete a rig repair, refurbishment or upgrade on time, or at all, may result in loss of revenues, the imposition of penalties, or delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract or the recognition of an asset impairment. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment, repair and newbuild projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair typically do not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. If we experience substantial delays and cost overruns in our shipyard projects, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may have significant financial commitments with respect to three newbuild high specification jackup rigs under construction.In connection with our acquisition of Prospector, we acquired subsidiaries that contracted for the construction of three newbuild high specification jackup rigs by Shanghai Waigaoqiao Ship Co. Ltd. (“SWS”) in China. At December 31, 2015, we had purchase commitments of $600 million currently due in 2016 on the construction of three high-specification jackup rigs related to the Prospector Acquisition, as defined in Part II, Note 4 - “Acquisition”, the Prospector 6, Prospector 7 and Prospector 8, or collectively the “Three High-Spec Jackups Under Construction”. Each of these rigs is being built pursuant to a contract between a subsidiary of Prospector and the shipyard, without a Paragon parent company guarantee or other direct recourse to any other subsidiary of Paragon other than the applicable subsidiary. In the event we are unable to extend delivery of any of the Three High-Spec Jackups Under Construction, we will lose ownership of the applicable rig, at which time, the associated costs (primarily representing down-payments on these rigs) will be forfeited. These subsidiaries have currently pre-paid to SWS only 1%, 7% and 7%, respectively, of the purchase price for each newbuild pursuant to the contracts with SWS. Upon delivery, these subsidiaries will be required to pay the remaining purchase price in full for the newbuild being delivered, or $201 million, $199 million and $199 million, respectively. Prospector 8 is scheduled to be delivered in the first quarter of 2016. In July 2015, we agreed with SWS to an extension of the delivery of the Prospector 6 to the second quarter of 2016. Subsequently in October 2015, we agreed with SWS to an extension of the delivery of the Prospector 7 to the fourth quarter of 2016. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a full impairment of $43 million of all the capitalized costs associated with the Three High-Spec Jackups Under Construction in connection with our annual long-lived asset impairment evaluation described in Part II, Note 5 - “Property and Equipment and Other Assets”. Taking delivery of the newbuilds will require each of these subsidiaries to secure additional capital to finance the remaining purchase price, which they may not be able to obtain at all or on commercially acceptable terms. Such financing may be increasingly difficult to secure during the pendency of the chapter 11 proceedings. Any financing may also be contingent upon securing a drilling contract for such newbuild. Should one of these subsidiaries ultimately not accept delivery for a newbuild for any reason, they will forfeit any pre-paid portion of the purchase price to SWS, including any amounts paid in connection with any extensions of delivery. In addition, SWS could pursue a contractual claim against our subsidiary holding the applicable newbuild contract for the remaining purchase price of such newbuild. While SWS has no contractual recourse to any of our subsidiaries other than 27Table of Contentsthese subsidiaries holding the SWS contracts, if a court of competent jurisdiction finds that one or more of our other subsidiaries who are not party to such contracts are liable to SWS, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We can provide no assurance that our current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2015, our contract backlog was $1.0 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2018, with approximately 64% expected to be earned in 2016. Generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, we may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. In addition, we may not receive some or all of the bonuses that we include in our backlog. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control or that we will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. In addition, we generally do not expect to recontract our floaters until late in their contract terms. Our floaters accounted for 26% of our backlog at December 31, 2015. Due to the higher dayrates earned by our floaters, until these rigs are recontracted, our total backlog may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that our customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments to us. Our inability to perform under our contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements or our customers’ inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or at all, our future growth will be limited, and any acquisition we make may not be successful and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Part of our strategy is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in revenues and customer contracts. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions will depend upon, among other things, the availability of attractive targets in the marketplace, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to consummate any future acquisition.Our debt agreements restrict our ability to make acquisitions involving the payment of cash or the incurrence of indebtedness. If we are unable to make acquisitions, our future growth will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, we may have difficulty integrating its operations, systems, management, personnel and technology with our own, or could assume unidentified or unforeseen liabilities, such that an acquisition may produce less revenue than expected as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. If we consummate any future acquisitions, shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating any such acquisitions.Operational interruptions or maintenance or repair work may cause our customers to suspend or reduce payment of dayrates until operation of the respective drilling rig is resumed, which would lead to loss of revenue or termination or renegotiation of the drilling contract. If our drilling rigs are idle for reasons that are not related to the ability of the rig to operate, our customers pay a waiting or standby rate which is lower than the full operational rate. In addition, if our drilling rigs are taken out of service for maintenance and repair for a period of time exceeding the scheduled maintenance periods set forth in our drilling contracts, we will not be entitled to payment of dayrates until the rig is able to work. Several factors could cause operational interruptions, including: •breakdowns of equipment and other unforeseen engineering problems; •work stoppages, including labor strikes; •shortages of material and skilled labor; •delays in repairs by suppliers; •surveys by government and maritime authorities; •periodic classification surveys; •inability to obtain permits; •severe weather, strong ocean currents or harsh operating conditions; and •force majeure events. If the interruption of operations were to exceed a determined period due to an event of force majeure, our customers have the right to pay a rate that is significantly lower than the waiting rate for a period of time, and, thereafter, may terminate the 28Table of Contentsdrilling contracts related to the subject rig. Suspension of drilling contract payments, prolonged payment of reduced rates or termination of any drilling contract as a result of an interruption of operations as described herein could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.As a result of our significant cash flow needs, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness, and in the event of lost market access, may have to delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures. Our currently anticipated cash flow needs, both in the short-term and long-term, may include the following: •servicing and repayment of debt;•committed capital expenditures, including expenditures for newbuild projects currently underway; •normal recurring operating expenses; and•discretionary capital expenditures, including various capital upgrades;In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need funding beyond the amount available to us from cash generated by our operations, cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facilities. We may raise such additional capital in a number of ways, including accessing capital markets, obtaining additional lines of credit or disposing of assets. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these options will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Worldwide instability in financial markets or another recession could reduce the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional capital through debt financings, incurring additional indebtedness may significantly increase our interest expense and may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund working capital needs, because we will require additional funds to service our outstanding indebtedness. We may delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures, which could have certain adverse consequences including delaying upgrades or equipment purchases that could make the affected rigs less competitive, adversely affect customer relationships and negatively impact our ability to contract such rigs.A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Income tax returns that we file will be subject to review and examination. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges positions we have taken on tax filings, including but not limited to, our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may record losses or impairment charges related to sold, idle, or scrapped rigs.Prolonged periods of low utilization or low dayrates, the cold stacking of idle assets, the sale of assets below their then carrying value or the decline in market value of our assets may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges on our fleet, as we have recently recorded on several of our rigs, if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable or if we sell assets at below their then carrying value.We may have difficulty obtaining or maintaining insurance in the future and our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity rights may not protect us against all of the risks and hazards we face. We do not procure insurance coverage for all of the potential risks and hazards we may face. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain insurance against all of the risks and hazards we face or that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance at rates and with deductibles or retention amounts that we consider commercially reasonable. Our insurance carriers may interpret our insurance policies such that they do not cover losses for which we make claims. Our insurance policies may also have exclusions of coverage for some losses. Uninsured exposures may include expatriate 29Table of Contentsactivities prohibited by U.S. laws, radiation hazards, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes. We do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks, including loss of hire insurance on most of the rigs in our fleet. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Although we maintain insurance in the geographic areas in which we operate, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Furthermore, the damage sustained to offshore oil and gas assets as a result of hurricanes in recent years has negatively impacted the energy insurance market, resulting in more restrictive and expensive coverage for U.S. named windstorm perils. If one or more future significant weather-related events occur in the Gulf of Mexico, or in any other geographic area in which we operate, we may experience increases in insurance costs, additional coverage restrictions or unavailability of certain insurance products. Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a “knock-for-knock” basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property, irrespective of the fault or negligence of the party indemnified. Although our drilling contracts generally provide for indemnification from our customers for certain liabilities, including liabilities resulting from pollution or contamination originating below the surface of the water, enforcement of these contractual rights to indemnity may be limited by public policy and other considerations and, in any event, may not adequately cover our losses from such incidents. There can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify us will necessarily be in a financial position to do so. Our effective tax rate could be highly volatile due to legislative and operation changes.Legislation enacted or expected to be enacted, as well as changes in the interpretation or application of tax legislation, in jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or operating could increase our taxes. As a result, our effective tax rate could be highly volatile, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate through various subsidiaries in numerous countries throughout the world. Consequently, income taxes have been based on the laws and rates in effect in the countries in which operations are conducted, or in which we and our subsidiaries or our Predecessor and its subsidiaries were incorporated or otherwise considered to have a taxable presence. The change in the effective tax rate from period to period is primarily attributable to changes in the profitability or loss mix of our operations in various jurisdictions. As our operations continually change among numerous jurisdictions, and methods of taxation in these jurisdictions vary greatly, there is little direct correlation between the income tax provision/benefit and income/loss before taxes.Possible changes in tax laws, or the interpretation or application thereof could affect us and our shareholders.Due to our global presence, we are subject to changes in tax laws, policies, treaties and regulations, as well as the interpretation or enforcement thereof, in the U.K., the U.S. and any other jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are incorporated. For example, the U.K. passed legislation effective from April 1, 2015, which levies a 25% tax on profits deemed to have been “diverted” from U.K. taxpayers to low tax jurisdictions. Although we do not believe that we are affected by the law at this time, uncertainty exists with respect to the legislation’s impact to our operations. Should this legislation be applicable to our operations in the U.K., our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.In addition, a tax law was enacted in Brazil, effective January 1, 2015, that under certain circumstances would impose a 15% to 25% withholding tax on charter hire payments made to a non-Brazilian related party exceeding certain thresholds of total contract value. Although we believe that our operations are not subject to this law, the tax is being withheld at the source by our customer and we have recorded the amount withheld as tax expense. Discussions with our customer over the applicability of this legislation are ongoing.Tax laws, policies, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws, policies, treaties and regulations in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. If any laws, policies, treaties or regulations change or taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of such laws, policies, treaties and regulations, this could have a material adverse effect on us, including the imposition of a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings or a reclassification of the tax impact of our significant corporate restructuring transactions.The manner in which our shareholders are taxed on distributions from, and dispositions of, our shares could be affected by changes in tax laws, policies, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the U.K., the U.S. or other jurisdictions in which our shareholders are resident. Any such changes could result in increased taxes for our shareholders and affect the trading price of our shares.30Table of ContentsOur operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and of human health and safety, and compliance with these laws and regulations could impose significant costs and liabilities that exceed our current expectations. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues could arise from environmental, health and safety laws and regulations covering our operations, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in maintaining compliance with such laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to extensive international conventions and treaties, and national or federal, state and local laws and regulations, governing health and safety and environmental protection, including with respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws govern a wide range of issues, including: •employee safety;•the release of oil, drilling fluids, natural gas or other materials into the environment; •air emissions from our drilling rigs or our facilities; •handling, cleanup and remediation of solid and hazardous wastes at our drilling rigs or our facilities or at locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal; •restrictions on chemicals and other hazardous substances; and •wildlife protection, including regulations that ensure our activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, or destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits, or the release of oil or other materials into the environment, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of moratoria or injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases, or could affect our relationship with certain consumers. There is an inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our customers’ hydrocarbon products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. Joint, several or strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with past, present or future spills or releases of natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from past, present or future facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control equipment requirements or by non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into regulatory compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change, and new capital costs may be incurred to comply with such changes. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our operations, as well as waste management and air emissions. For instance, governmental agencies could impose additional safety requirements, which could affect our profitability. Further, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our customers, which in turn could affect our profitability. Finally, although some of our drilling rigs will be separately owned by our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances a parent company and all of the unit-owning affiliates in a group under common control engaged in a joint venture could be held 31Table of Contentsliable for damages or debts owed by one of the affiliates, including liabilities for oil spills under environmental laws. Therefore, it is possible that we could be subject to liability upon a judgment against us or any one of our subsidiaries.We are subject to risks associated with climate change and climate change regulation.There is an ongoing debate about emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, and climate change. Climate change, and the costs that may be associated with its impacts, and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our services, the demand for and consumption of our services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks. In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate change create the potential for financial risk. There have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions.The passage or promulgation of any new climate change laws or regulations by the IMO at the international level, or by national or regional legislatures in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the European Union, could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our services by making our services more or less desirable than services associated with competing sources of energy.Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing GHG concentrations in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of hurricanes and other storms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in personnel costs could adversely affect our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our drilling units. As the demand for drilling services and the size of the worldwide industry fleet increases, shortages of qualified personnel have occurred from time to time. These shortages could result in our loss of qualified personnel to competitors, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our new or existing drilling units, impair the timeliness and quality of our work and create upward pressure on personnel costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our business to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. U.S. sanctions, in particular, are targeted against certain countries that are heavily involved in the petroleum and petrochemical industries, which includes drilling activities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could also result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Currently, we do not, nor do we intend to, operate in countries that are subject to significant sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. Although we believe that we will be in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations at the closing of this offering, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in 32Table of Contentscompliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into drilling contracts with individuals or entities in countries subject to significant U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Our operations present hazards and risks that require significant and continuous oversight, and we depend upon the security and reliability of our technologies, systems and networks in numerous locations where we conduct business. Our floaters and high specification units utilize certain technologies that may make us vulnerable to cyber-attacks that we may not be able to adequately protect against. These cybersecurity risks could disrupt certain of our operations for an extended period of time and result in the loss of critical data and in higher costs to correct and remedy the effects of such incidents. If our systems for protecting against information technology and cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business and financial systems compromised, our proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our business operations and safety procedures disrupted. Fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses to us. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We are subject to litigation that could have a material adverse effect on us. We are, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, environmental claims or proceedings, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation. Litigation may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, costs of attorneys, the allocation of management’s time and attention, and other factors. We are a holding company, and we are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We currently conduct our operations through both U.S. and foreign subsidiaries, and our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries that we require to pay our debt service obligations. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by our subsidiaries to further taxation. The inability of our subsidiaries to transfer cash to us may mean that, even though we may have sufficient resources on a consolidated basis to meet our obligations, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from subsidiaries to us in order to provide funds for the payment of our obligations.Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results.Public health threats, such as Ebola, the H1N1 flu virus, the Zika virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.Our information technology systems are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.We depend on digital technologies to conduct our offshore and onshore operations, to collect payments from customers and to pay vendors and employees. Threats to our information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber- 33Table of Contentsincidents or attacks continue to grow. In addition, breaches to our systems could go unnoticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include disruptions of certain systems on our rigs; other impairments of our ability to conduct our operations; loss of intellectual property, proprietary information or customer data; disruption of our customer’s operations; loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems; and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. If such a cyber-incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Acts of terrorism, piracy and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services.Acts of terrorism and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. In addition, acts of terrorism, piracy, and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverages may be unavailable in the future. Our drilling contracts do not generally provide indemnification against loss of capital assets or loss of revenues resulting from acts of terrorism, piracy and social unrest. We have limited insurance for our assets providing coverage for physical damage losses from risks, such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil unrest, expropriation and acts of war, and we do not carry insurance for loss of revenue resulting from such risks. Government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future.Risks Related to our Ordinary SharesOur shares are subject to risks associated with trading in an over the counter market. On December 18, 2015, our shares were delisted from the NYSE and, subsequently, began trading on the OTCQX. On February 14, 2016, we were removed from the OTCQX and began trading on the OTC Pink due to the commencement of our Bankruptcy cases. Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, such as the NYSE, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, holders of shares may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our shares that could occur, our share price could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. The lack of liquidity in our shares may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. In addition, we may experience other adverse effects, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships.Although we paid a cash dividend in the past, our Board of Directors has elected to suspend the declaration and payment of dividends, and we may not pay cash dividends in the future. We pay dividends at the discretion of our Board of Directors. In November 2014, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share, but in February 2015, we announced that we would be suspending the declaration and payment of dividends for the foreseeable future in order to preserve liquidity. If we continue not to pay cash dividends, it could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Any determination to declare a dividend, as well as the amount of any dividend that may be declared, will be based on the Board’s consideration of our financial position, earnings, earnings outlook, capital spending plans, outlook on current and future market conditions and business needs and other factors that our Board considers relevant factors at that time. As proposed by our Plan, the contemplated amendments to our Revolving Credit Facility would prohibit us from paying any dividends following our emergence from bankruptcy.34Table of ContentsRisks Related to the Spin-OffOur historical combined financial statements of our Predecessor are not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows nor do they reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented prior to July 31, 2014.The historical combined financial information of our Predecessor that we have included in this annual report does not reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors:•our Predecessor’s historical combined financial information reflects allocations of expenses for services historically provided by Noble, and those allocations may be significantly lower than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as an independent public company;•our cost of debt and other capitalization may be significantly different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements;•our Predecessor’s historical combined financial information does not reflect the changes that occurred in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of our separation from Noble, including the costs related to being an independent public company;•our Predecessor’s historical combined financial information does not reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were assumed by our Company, and reflects the effects of certain assets and liabilities that were to be retained by Noble; and•our Predecessor’s historical combined financial information includes three standard specification drilling rigs retained by Noble as well as one jackup and two cold stacked submersibles that were sold by Noble in July 2013 and January 2014, respectively.The terms of our Separation from Noble, the related agreements and other transactions with Noble were determined by Noble and thus may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party.Prior to the completion of the Distribution, we entered into various agreements to complete the separation of our business from Noble and govern our ongoing relationships, including, among others, Master Separation Agreement, employee matters agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, a transition services agreement relating to services provided to each other on an interim basis and a transition services agreement relating to Noble’s offshore Brazil operations.Under one of the transition services agreements, Noble provides various interim corporate support services to us and we provide various interim support services to Noble. Under the transition services agreement for Brazil, we provide both rig-based and shore-based support services for Noble’s continuing offshore Brazil operations through the term of the existing rig contracts. The Master Separation Agreement provides for, among other things, our responsibility for liabilities relating to our business and the responsibility of Noble for liabilities unrelated to our business. Among other things, the master separation agreement contains indemnification obligations and ongoing commitments of us and Noble designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Separation. Our indemnification of Noble under the circumstances set forth in the Master Separation Agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities.Potential liabilities associated with certain obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement cannot be precisely quantified at this time.Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, we generally are responsible for all taxes attributable to our business, whether accruing before, on or after the date of the Spin-Off. Noble generally is responsible for any taxes arising from the Spin-Off, and certain related transactions, that are imposed on us, Noble or its other subsidiaries, with the exception that we are responsible for any such taxes to the extent resulting from certain actions or failures to act by us that occur after the effective date of the Tax Sharing Agreement. Our liabilities under the Tax Sharing Agreement could have a material adverse effect on us. At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the total amount of liabilities we may have under the Tax Sharing Agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts.35Table of ContentsIn January 2015, a subsidiary of Noble received an unfavorable ruling from the Mexican Supreme Court on a tax depreciation position claimed in periods prior to the Spin-Off. Although the ruling does not constitute mandatory jurisprudence in Mexico, it does create potential indemnification exposure for us under the Tax Sharing Agreement if Noble is ultimately determined to be liable for any amounts. We have considered this matter under ASC 460, Guarantees, and concluded that our liability under this matter is reasonably possible. Due to these current uncertainties, we are not able to reasonably estimate the magnitude of any liability at this time, nor determine a timeline on this matter. As part of the PSA, we entered into a definitive Term Sheet with Noble with respect to the Noble Settlement Agreement. While the Term Sheet has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies, the Noble Settlement Agreement remains subject to execution of a definitive agreement and the approval of such agreement by the Bankruptcy Court in our chapter 11 proceedings.The Tax Sharing Agreement may limit our ability to engage in certain strategic corporate transactions and equity issuances.Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we and our affiliates agree not to take any action, or fail to take any action, after the effective date of the Tax Sharing Agreement, which action or failure to act is inconsistent with the Spin-Off qualifying as tax free under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. In particular, we may determine to continue to operate certain of our business operations for the foreseeable future even if a sale or discontinuance of such business may otherwise have been advantageous. Moreover, in light of the requirements of Section 355(e) of the Code, we might determine to forgo certain transactions, including share repurchases, stock issuances, certain asset dispositions or other strategic transactions for some period of time following the Spin-Off. In addition, our indemnity obligation under the Tax Sharing Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control transaction for some period of time following the Spin-Off. In the event that we take action or fail to take action that affects the tax free nature of the Spin-Off, it would have a material impact on our financial position.Potential indemnification liabilities to Noble pursuant to the Master Separation Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our company.The Master Separation Agreement with Noble provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the Spin-Off, certain conditions to the Spin-Off and provisions governing the relationship between our company and Noble with respect to and resulting from the Spin-Off. Among other things, the Master Separation Agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities whenever incurred. Our indemnification of Noble under the circumstances set forth in the Master Separation Agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities.In connection with our Separation, Noble has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Noble’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.Pursuant to the Master Separation Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, transition services agreement and transition services agreement relating to Noble’s offshore Brazil operations, Noble has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Noble has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Noble will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Noble will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Noble any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. If Noble is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.36Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.