Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, many of which are beyond our control, might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently not believed to be material could also affect our actual results. We may update these factors in our future periodic reports. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We might not be able to renew leases or relet space at existing properties, or lease newly developed properties. When leases for our existing properties expire, the premises might not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, might be less favorable than the current lease terms. Also, we might not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our lease agreements with our tenants typically provide a fixed rate for certain cost reimbursement charges; if our operating expenses increase or we are otherwise unable to collect sufficient cost reimbursement payments from our tenants, our business, results of operations and financial condition might be materially adversely affected. Energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas of our properties, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs and security costs are typically allocable to our properties' tenants. Our lease agreements typically provide that the tenant is liable for a portion of such common area maintenance charges (which we refer to as "CAM") and other operating expenses. The majority of our current leases require the tenant to pay a fixed periodic amount to reimburse a portion of our CAM and other operating expenses. In these cases, a tenant will pay either (a) a specified rent amount that includes the fixed CAM and operating expense reimbursement amount, or (b) a fixed expense reimbursement amount separate from the rent payment. Both types of CAM and operating expense reimbursement payments are subject to annual increases regardless of the actual amount of CAM and other operating expenses. As a result, any adjustments in tenant payments do not depend on whether operating expenses increase or decrease, causing us to be responsible for any excess amounts. In the event that our operating expenses increase, CAM and tenant reimbursements that we receive might not allow us to recover a substantial portion of these operating costs. In addition, the computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for CAM, insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments, including interpretation of lease terms and other tenant lease provisions. Unforeseen or underestimated expenses might cause us to collect less than our actual expenses. The amounts we calculate and bill could also be disputed by tenants or become the subject of a tenant audit or even litigation. In the event that our properties are not fully occupied, we would be required to pay the portion of the CAM expenses allocable to the vacant space(s) that would otherwise typically be paid by the residing tenant(s). For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, our CAM and operating expense recovery was sufficient to cover our operating expenses. Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be materially adversely affected by the loss of, or a store closure by, one or more of these anchor stores or major tenants. Our strip centers and malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our properties could be materially adversely affected if these department stores or major tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. For example, among department stores and other large stores, corporate merger activity typically results in the closure of duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. Resulting adverse pressure on the businesses of our department stores and major tenants could have an adverse impact upon our own results. Certain department stores and other national retailers have experienced, and might continue to experience, depending on consumer confidence levels, considerable decreases in customer traffic in their retail stores, increased competition from alternative retail options such as those accessible via the Internet and other forms of pressure on their business models. Pressure on these department stores and national 15 Table of Contents retailers could impact their ability to maintain their stores, meet their obligations both to us and to their external lenders and suppliers, withstand takeover attempts by investors or rivals or avoid bankruptcy and/or liquidation, all of which could result in impairment or closures of their stores. Other of our tenants might be entitled to modify the economic or other terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures, which could decrease rents and/or operating expense reimbursements. The leases of some anchors might permit the anchor to transfer its lease, including any attendant approval rights, to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor could cause customer traffic in the property to decrease or to be composed of different types of customers, which could reduce the income generated by that property and adversely impact development or re-development prospects for such property. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor also could allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the property, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, department store or major tenant closures might result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at our properties. If the sales of stores operating in our properties decline significantly due to the closing of anchor stores or other national retailers, adverse economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants might be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of any default by a tenant, whether a department store, national retailer or otherwise, we might not be able to fully recover, and/or experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover, amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with such parties. We face risks associated with the acquisition, development, re-development and expansion of properties, including risks of higher than projected costs, inability to obtain financing, inability to obtain required consents or approvals and inability to attract tenants at anticipated rates. In the event we seek to acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, we might not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or re-development/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed, re-developed or expanded properties might not perform as well as expected. Other related risks we face include, without limitation, the following: • Construction costs of a project could be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; • We might not be able to obtain financing or to refinance loans on favorable terms, if at all; • We might be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals; • Occupancy rates and rents might not meet our projections and as a result the project could be unprofitable; and • In some cases, we might need the consent of third parties, such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners to conduct acquisition, development, re-development or expansion activities, and those consents may be withheld. If a project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Furthermore, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges that may materially affect our financial results. We evaluate our real estate assets and other assets for impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of our investment in the asset is not reasonably assured. This evaluation is conducted periodically, but no less frequently than quarterly. Our determination of whether a particular held-for-use asset is impaired is based upon the undiscounted projected cash flows used for the impairment analysis and our determination of the asset's estimated fair value, that in turn are based upon our plans for the respective asset and our views of market and economic 16 Table of Contents conditions. With respect to assets held-for-sale, our determination of whether such an asset is impaired is based upon market and economic conditions. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, then we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made. Furthermore, changes in estimated future cash flows due to a change in our plans, policies, or views of market and economic conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment losses for already impaired assets, which, under the applicable accounting guidance, could be substantial. Clauses in leases with certain tenants of our development or redevelopment properties frequently include inducements, such as reduced rent and tenant allowance payments,that can reduce our rents and funds from operations. As a result, these development or redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than our previous development or redevelopment properties. The leases for a number of the tenants that have opened stores at properties we have developed or redeveloped have reduced rent from co-tenancy clauses that allow those tenants to pay reduced rent until occupancy at the respective property reaches certain thresholds and/or certain named co-tenants open stores at the respective property. Additionally, some tenants may have rent abatement clauses that delay rent commencement for a prolonged period of time after initial occupancy. The effect of these clauses reduces our rents and FFO while they are applicable. We expect to continue to offer co-tenancy and rent abatement clauses in the future to attract tenants to our development and redevelopment properties. As a result, our current and future development and redevelopment properties are more likely to achieve lower returns during their stabilization periods than other projects of this nature historically have, which may adversely impact our investment in such developments, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets, and these investments are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot be certain that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sale price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment in that property. We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably. Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retail, such as catalogs and e-commerce websites. Competition could also come from strip centers, outlet centers, lifestyle centers, and malls, and both existing and future development projects. The presence of competitive alternatives might adversely impact the success of our existing properties, our ability to lease space and the rental rates we can obtain. We also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified management. If we are unable to successfully compete, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The increase in digital and mobile technology usage has increased the speed of the transition from shopping at physical locations to web-based purchases. If we are unsuccessful in adapting our business to changing consumer spending habits, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents If we lose our key management personnel, we might not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. WPG's management team includes experienced members of SPG's former mall platform and strip center management team who have a detailed understanding of our strip center properties. A large part of our success depends on the leadership and performance of our executive management team. If we lose the services of these individuals, we might not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which could adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance or otherwise take actions concerning these properties that would be in the best interests of our shareholders. We may continue to co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities, including without limitation by acquiring controlling or non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for, managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. We do not have sole decision-making authority regarding the one property that we currently hold through a joint venture with another party. Additionally, we might not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding any future properties that we hold in a partnership or joint venture. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities could, under certain circumstances, involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their financial condition, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers could have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and could be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers might result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. Our revenues are dependent on the level of revenues realized by our tenants, and a decline in their revenues could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various risks that affect the retail environment generally, including levels of consumer spending, seasonality, changes in economic conditions, unemployment rates, an increase in the use of the Internet by retailers and consumers, and natural disasters. In addition, levels of consumer spending could be adversely affected by, for example, increases in consumer savings rates, increases in tax rates, reduced levels of income growth and other declines in consumer net worth and a strengthening of the U.S. dollar as compared to non-U.S. currencies. As a result of these and other economic and market-based factors, our tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges due. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations or their revenues decline. In addition, a decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. 18 Table of Contents Store closures and/or bankruptcy filings by tenants could occur during the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. Large scale store closings or the bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, might make it more difficult to lease the remainder of a particular property or properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. Economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market in which we operate is affected by a number of factors that are largely beyond our control butcould nevertheless have a significant negative impact on us. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Interest rates and credit spreads; • The availability of credit, including the price, terms and conditions under which it can be obtained; • A decrease in consumer spending or sentiment, including as a result of increases in savings rates and tax increases, and any effect that this might have on retail activity; • The actual and perceived state of the real estate market, market for dividend-paying stocks and public capital markets in general; and • Unemployment rates, both nationwide and within the primary markets in which we operate. In addition, increased inflation might have a pronounced negative impact on the interest expense we pay in connection with our outstanding indebtedness and our general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Inflation might adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases, which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our own results of operations. Conversely, deflation might result in a decline in general price levels, often caused by a decrease in the supply of money or credit. The predominant effects of deflation are high unemployment, credit contraction and weakened consumer demand. Restricted lending practices might impact our ability to obtain financing for our properties and might also negatively impact our tenants' ability to obtain credit. Decreases in consumer demand can have a direct impact on our tenants and the rents we receive. A slow-growing economy hinders consumer spending, which could decrease the level of discretionary income available for shopping at our properties. Weak income growth could weigh down consumer spending, which could be further affected if the overall economy suffers a setback. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our share price. An environment of rising interest rates could lead holders of our common shares to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common shares in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments. In addition, increases in market interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs for us, which may adversely affect our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our shareholders. 19 Table of Contents Following the Merger, we have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, including decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our interest expense. The consolidated indebtedness of our business as of December 31, 2014 was approximately $2.3 billion. Our pro forma indebtedness as of December 31, 2014, after giving effect to the Merger and other transactions contemplated by the Merger agreement and the anticipated incurrence and extinguishment of indebtedness in connection therewith, was approximately $4.8 billion. We have substantially increased indebtedness following completion of the Merger in comparison to our indebtedness on a recent historical basis, which could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing our interest expense. In addition, we have and will continue to incur various costs and expenses associated with the financing. The amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness levels following completion of the Merger are greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the Merger. Our increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the Merger could also reduce access to capital and increase borrowing costs generally, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, tenant improvements, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the Merger, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted. Certain of the indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the Merger bears interest at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, such variable rate debt would create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flows. The agreements that govern our indebtedness, including the indebtedness incurred and assumed in connection with the Merger, contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that might affect our or their ability to operate. We have a variety of unsecured debt, including the bridge facility and credit facility, and secured property-level debt. The agreements that govern such indebtedness, including the indebtedness incurred and assumed in connection with the Merger, contain various affirmative and negative covenants that could, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict the ability of us and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on property, incur additional indebtedness, make loans, advances or other investments, make non-ordinary course asset sales, and/or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or convey certain assets to any one person. In addition, some of the agreements that govern the debt financing contain financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these provisions might be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations. If we cannot obtain additional capital, our growth might be limited. In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT each year, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our shareholders. As a result, our retained earnings available to fund acquisitions, development, or other capital expenditures are nominal, and we rely upon the availability of additional debt or equity capital to fund these activities. Our long-term ability to grow through acquisitions or development, which is an important component of our strategy, will be limited if we cannot obtain additional debt financing or equity capital. Market conditions might make it difficult to obtain debt financing or raise equity capital, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms. 20 Table of Contents Adverse changes in any credit rating might affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms. Our outstanding debt is periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. Our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet debt obligations. Prior to the Merger, the major credit rating agencies assigned our company an investment grade credit rating of BBB or Baa2. However, as a result of the Merger and related financings, we have been informed by S&P and Moody's that it has been placed on negative watch and Fitch has downgraded us to a BBB– rating. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. We may enter into hedging interest rate protection arrangements that might not effectively limit our interest rate risk. We may seek to selectively manage any exposure that we might have to interest rate risk through interest rate protection agreements geared toward effectively fixing or capping a portion of our variable-rate debt. In addition, we may refinance fixed-rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Any such efforts to manage these exposures might not be successful. Our potential use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility might expose us to additional risks, including the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement fails to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, and any changes in such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The laws, regulations and policies governing our business, or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the national level or in any of the states in which we operate, might change at any time and could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as it is phased-in over time, might significantly impact our cost of providing employees with health care insurance. We are unable to predict how this, or any other future legislative or regulatory proposals or programs, will be administered or implemented, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. In addition, changes in tax laws might have a significant impact on our operating results. For more information regarding the impact of changing tax laws on our operating results, please refer to the risk factors section titled "Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT." Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our reputation generally. We are unable to give any assurances that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As owners of real estate, we might face liabilities or other significant costs related to environmental issues. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment might require us, as a current or previous owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws and regulations might require us to abate or remove asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws and regulations also govern the 21 Table of Contents installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain, or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances could be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, might also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral. In addition, under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate might be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or otherwise caused, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination at any of our properties, or the failure to remediate contamination discovered at such properties, could result in significant costs to us and/or materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral. For example, federal, state and local laws require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which might be substantial for certain re-developments. These regulations also govern emissions of, and exposure to, asbestos fibers in the air, which might necessitate implementation of site-specific maintenance practices. Certain laws also impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties might seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury or property damage associated with asbestos-containing materials. Asbestos-containing building materials are present at some of our properties and might be present at others. To minimize the risk of on-site asbestos being improperly disturbed, we have developed and implemented asbestos operations and maintenance programs to manage asbestos-containing materials and suspected asbestos-containing materials in accordance with applicable legal requirements, however we cannot be certain that our programs eliminate all risk of asbestos being improperly disturbed. Any liability, and the associated costs thereof, we might face for environmental matters could adversely impact our ability to operate our business and our financial condition. Some of our potential losses might not be covered by insurance. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses, including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third-party carriers will either be insured through a wholly owned captive insurance companies or other financial arrangements controlled by SPG. A third-party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through SPG's captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations. There are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims and certain catastrophic perils that generally are not insured or are subject to large insurance deductibles. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, or a loss for which there is a large deductible occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate. We currently maintain insurance coverage for acts of terrorism by foreign or domestic agents. The United States government provides reinsurance coverage to insurance companies following a declared terrorism event under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, which extended the effectiveness of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (which we refer to as the "TRIA") of 2005. 22 Table of Contents The TRIA is designed to reinsure the insurance industry from declared terrorism events that cause or create in excess of $100 million in damages or losses. The U.S. government could terminate its reinsurance of terrorism, thus increasing the risk of uninsured losses for such acts. Our tenants are likely subject to similar risks. Our due diligence review of acquisition opportunities or other transactions might not identify all pertinent risks, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Although we intend to conduct due diligence with respect to each acquisition opportunity or other transaction that we pursue, including without limitation the Merger with Glimcher, it is possible that our due diligence processes will not or did not uncover all relevant facts, particularly with respect to any assets we acquire from third parties including assets acquired from Glimcher. In some cases, we might be given limited access to information about the investment and will rely on information provided by the target of the investment. In addition, if opportunities are scarce, the process for selecting bidders is competitive, or the time frame in which we are required to complete diligence is short, our ability to conduct a due diligence investigation might be limited, and we would be required to make investment decisions based upon a less thorough diligence process than would otherwise be the case. Accordingly, investments and other transactions that initially appear to be viable may prove to not be so over time, due to the limitations of the due diligence process or other factors. Specifically regarding the Merger with Glimcher, we relied on the information provided by Glimcher to assess the viability of the acquisition, and therefore we may not have obtained the full extent of the information we needed to accurately assess the pertinent risks. We are dependent on SPG to provide services to us pursuant to the property management agreements and transition services agreement; it may be difficult to replace the services provided under such agreements, and employees of SPG will face competing demands on their time in discharging their duties to WPG under these agreements. We depend on SPG to provide certain services to us in operating our malls such as negotiating leases with tenants, promoting the property through advertisements, billing tenants for rent and all other charges, paying the salaries of all employees of SPG responsible for management of the properties, making such repairs as approved in the budgets, maintenance and payment of any taxes or fees. The loss of such services could adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, these employees face competing demands on their time in discharging their duties to us under these agreements, the compensation of these employees is entirely determined by SPG and might not be linked to the operating performance of our malls, and the continued service of these employees pursuant to the property management agreements is not guaranteed. It may be difficult for us to replace our property management agreements with SPG. The property management agreements may be terminated by either party as of the end of the initial term or during any renewal term upon 180 days' prior notice to the other party. If the property management agreements are terminated we will need to replace the services provided by SPG and the terms of such replacement agreements may be less favorable to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying distributions at the current rate. Since our separation from SPG in May 2014, we have maintained a policy to pay a quarterly cash dividend at an annualized rate of $1.00 per common share and intend to pay the same dividend going forward. However, holders of our common shares may not receive the same quarterly dividends following the Merger for various reasons, including the following: • As a result of the Merger and the issuance of our common shares in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required to pay dividends at our current rate will need to increase; • We may not have enough cash to pay such distributions due to changes in our cash requirements, indebtedness, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; 23 Table of Contents • Decisions on whether, when and in what amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board, which reserves the right to change dividend practices at any time and for any reason; • We may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve our credit ratings; • The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be subject to restrictions imposed by law, regulation or the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur; and • The interest costs associated with the financing agreements into which we entered into in connection with the Merger. Our shareholders have no contractual or other legal right to distributions that have not been declared. We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies. Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Furthermore, certain of our tenants, including anchor tenants, hold the right under their lease(s) to terminate their lease(s) or reduce their rental rate if certain occupancy conditions are not met, if certain anchor tenants close, if certain sales levels or profit margins are not achieved, or if an exclusive use provision is violated, which all could be triggered in the event of one or more tenant bankruptcies. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future reports, when such certifications will be required. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause our company to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in our company and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect our company by, for example, leading to a decline in our share price and impairing our ability to raise additional capital. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Merger We incurred substantial expenses and incurred substantial additional indebtedness related to the Merger. We incurred substantial expenses in connection with consummating the Merger and integrating the businesses, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of Glimcher and WPG following the consummation of the Merger. The Merger and integration expenses associated with the Merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses following the completion of the Merger. There can be no assurances that the expected benefits, synergies and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized in the time expected, or at all, to offset these transaction and integration expenses. In addition, we entered into a new bridge loan facility [and assumed significant indebtedness] in connection with the Merger, which significantly increased our indebtedness. See the above risk factor captioned "Following the Merger, we have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, including decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our interest expense". Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively integrate our business with that of Glimcher following the Merger. We may be unable to integrate successfully our business with that of Glimcher and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. Even though we and Glimcher are operationally similar, we are and will continue to be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating Glimcher's business practices and operations with our own. In addition, the agreements we entered into with SPG in connection with our separation from SPG in May 2014 (discussed above), might prevent or delay us from fully integrating our businesses with that of Glimcher or might force us to incur costs to terminate such arrangements in excess of what is anticipated. The integration process could distract management, disrupt our ongoing business or result in inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants, lenders, joint venture partners, vendors and employees or to achieve all or any of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. As a result of the Merger, we may be unable to effectively attract, retain or motivate key employees. Our success after the Merger will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Key employees might depart because of issues relating to the Merger, including uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the Merger. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, retain or motivate key employees following the Merger to the same extent as in the past. We may incur adverse tax consequences if Glimcher has failed or fails to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Glimcher received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, commencing with Glimcher's initial taxable year ended December 31, 1994 through Glimcher's taxable year ended December 31, 2013, Glimcher has been organized and operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT and that, since January 1, 2014, its actual organization and method of operation has enabled Glimcher to meet, through the effective time of the Merger, the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. The opinion is subject to customary qualifications and based on customary representations made by Glimcher, and if any such representations are or become inaccurate or incomplete, such opinion may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. In addition, the opinion is not binding on the IRS or any court, and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not take a contrary position or that such position would not be sustained. If Glimcher has failed or fails to qualify as a REIT for U.S. 25 Table of Contents federal income tax purposes, we may inherit or incur significant tax liabilities (including with respect to any gain realized by Glimcher as a result of the Merger) and could lose our own REIT status should facts or activities as a result of which Glimcher failed to qualify as a REIT continue. Risks Related to the Separation from SPG We have a limited history operating as an independent company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical information about us in this Form 10-K prior to May 28, 2014 is derived from the historical accounting records of SPG and refers to our business as operated by and integrated with SPG. Our historical financial information included in this information statement is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of SPG. Accordingly, the historical and financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. Factors which could cause our results to differ from those reflected in such historical financial information and which may adversely impact our ability to receive similar results in the future include, but are not limited to, the following: • Prior to the separation, our business had been operated by SPG as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. SPG or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, such as accounting, information technology, and finance. Following the separation, SPG provided some of these functions to us, as described in "Agreements with SPG in Connection with the Separation" under Item 1, "Business". Our historical financial results for periods prior to the separation from SPG reflect allocations of corporate expenses from SPG for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate, publicly traded company. We have and will continue to make significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which we no longer have access after our separation from SPG. Developing our ability to operate without access to SPG's current operational and administrative infrastructure will be costly and may prove difficult; • During the time our business was integrated with the other businesses of SPG, we were able to use SPG's size and purchasing power in procuring various goods and services and shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. For example, we were historically able to take advantage of SPG's purchasing power in technology and services, including information technology, marketing, insurance, treasury services, property support and the procurement of goods. Although we entered into certain transition and other separation-related agreements with SPG, in the future these arrangements might not continue fully capture the benefits we have enjoyed as a result of being integrated with SPG and might result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services. In addition, services provided to us under the transition services agreement will generally only be provided for a maximum of 24 months, and this may not be sufficient to meet our needs. As a separate, independent company, we may be unable to obtain goods and services at the prices and terms obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease our overall profitability. As a separate, independent company, we may also not be as successful in negotiating favorable tax treatments and credits with governmental entities. Likewise, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain desired tenants. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition following the completion of the separation; • Before the separation, generally our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development, and capital expenditures, 26 Table of Contents were historically satisfied as part of SPG's cash management policies. Since the separation, we have been and may continue to be required to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements, which might not be on terms as favorable to those obtained by SPG, and the cost of capital for our business may be higher than SPG's cost of capital prior to the separation; and • As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. Complying with these requirements could result in significant costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. Other significant changes have occurred and may continue to occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as an independent company. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined financial statements of our business, please refer to "Selected Historical Combined Financial Data," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Under the agreements relating to the separation from SPG, we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions following the separation. In addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation, for the two-year period following the separation, we might be prohibited, except in specific circumstances, from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of our shares would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing our common shares, (iv) ceasing to actively conduct certain of our businesses, or (v) taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of WPG's business. For more information, please refer to "Agreements with SPG in Connection with the Separation" under Item 1, "Business". Potential indemnification liabilities to SPG pursuant to the separation agreement could materially adversely affect our operations. The separation agreement with SPG provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation, certain conditions to the separation and distribution and provisions governing our relationship with SPG with respect to and following the separation and distribution. Among other things, the separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation and distribution, as well as those obligations of SPG that we will assume pursuant to the separation agreement. If we are required to indemnify SPG under the circumstances set forth in this agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. For a description of this agreement, please refer to "Agreements with SPG in Connection with the Separation" under Item 1, "Business". After the separation, certain of our directors and executive officers have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing equity interest in, or positions at, SPG. Some of our directors or executive officers are persons who are or have been employees of SPG. Because of their former positions with SPG, certain of our directors and executive officers own SPG 27 Table of Contents common stock or other equity awards. Even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, since the separation some of our executive officers and some of our directors continue to have a financial interest in SPG common stock. In addition, certain of our directors have continued to serve on the board of directors of SPG and as executive officers of SPG. Continued ownership of SPG common stock, or service as a director at both companies, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest. We might not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation, and the separation might adversely affect our business. We might not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed due to a variety of circumstances, not all of which may be under our control. The separation is expected to provide the following benefits over time, among others: (i) a distinct investment identity allowing investors to evaluate our merits, performance and future prospects as an independent company; (ii) more efficient allocation of capital for both SPG and for us; and (iii) direct access by us to the capital markets. We might not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (i) following the separation, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if we were still a part of SPG; (ii) following the separation, our business is less diversified than SPG's business prior to the separation; and (iii) the other actions required to separate our business from that of SPG could disrupt our operations. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In connection with our separation from SPG, SPG will indemnify us for certain pre-distribution liabilities and liabilities related to SPG assets. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that SPG's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation agreement, SPG has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that SPG agrees to retain, and there can be no assurance that SPG will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from SPG any amounts for which we are held liable, such indemnification may be insufficient to fully offset the financial impact of such liabilities and/or we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from SPG. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability, which would substantially reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders. We received an opinion of our special REIT tax advisors, with respect to our qualification as a REIT in connection with the separation. In addition, we received an opinion of counsel with respect to Glimcher's qualification as a REIT, which qualification, as a result of the Merger, impacts our status as a REIT. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of advisors are not binding on the IRS or any court. 28 Table of Contents If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the value of, and trading prices for, our common shares. Unless we are deemed to be entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, we would also be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we initially ceased to qualify as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could cause our shares to be delisted from the NYSE. The NYSE requires, as a condition to the listing of our common shares, that we maintain our REIT status. Consequently, if we fail to maintain our REIT status, our common shares could promptly be delisted from the NYSE, which would decrease the trading activity of such common shares, making the sale of such common shares difficult. If we were delisted as a result of losing our REIT status and wished to relist our shares on the NYSE, we would be required to reapply to the NYSE to be listed as a non-REIT corporation. As the NYSE's listing standards for REITs are less burdensome than its standards for non-REIT corporations, it would be more difficult for us to become a listed company under these heightened standards. We might not be able to satisfy the NYSE's listing standards for non-REIT corporations. As a result, if we were delisted from the NYSE, we might not be able to relist as a non-REIT corporation, in which case our shares could not trade on the NYSE. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Dividends payable by non-REIT corporations to non-REIT shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates are generally taxed at reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. Qualifying as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Compliance with these requirements must be carefully monitored on a continuing basis, and there can be no assurance that our personnel responsible for doing so will be able to successfully monitor our compliance, despite clauses in the property management agreements requiring such monitoring. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify to be taxed as a REIT might depend, in part, on the actions of third parties over which we have either no control or only limited influence. Legislative, administrative, regulatory or other actions affecting REITs, including positions taken by the IRS, could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury"). In particular, in June 2013, several companies pursuing REIT conversions disclosed that they had been informed by the IRS that it had formed a new internal working group to study the current legal standards 29 Table of Contents the IRS uses to define "real estate" for purposes of the REIT provisions of the Code. Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof by the IRS and the Treasury, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or our company. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT and/or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to our investors and our company of such qualification. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to execute our business plan. In order for us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, and assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, to our shareholders each year, so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code. From time to time, we might generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, or make taxable distributions of our capital stock or debt securities to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Any restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make certain distributions could preclude us from meeting the 90% distribution requirement. Decreases in funds from operations due to unfinanced expenditures for acquisitions of properties or increases in the number of shares outstanding without commensurate increases in funds from operations each would adversely affect our ability to maintain distributions to our shareholders. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to make distributions at the anticipated distribution rate or any other rate. Please refer to the risk factor titled "We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying distributions at the current rate.." Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we could face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we could be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, we may hold some of our assets or conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs") or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to federal, state and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations. In addition, we might incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 30 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consist of cash, cash items, government securities and "real estate assets" (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. Additionally, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we might be required to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We might be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements might limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain potential hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or from transactions to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that satisfy the REIT gross income tests (including gain from the termination of such a transaction) does not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we might be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a total return swap. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the total return swap may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the total return swap will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the total return swap. We might be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay distributions to our shareholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our shareholders. To qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we intend to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our net taxable income each year, 31 Table of Contents subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. The share ownership limit imposed by the Code for REITs, and our amended and restated articles of incorporation, may inhibit market activity in our shares and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first taxable year. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorize our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 8%, or 18% in the case of members of the Simon family and related persons, of any class of capital stock or any combination thereof, determined by the number of shares outstanding, voting power or value (as determined by our board of directors), whichever produces the smallest holding of capital stock under the three methods, computed with regard to all outstanding shares of capital stock and, to the extent provided by the Code, all shares of capital stock issuable under outstanding options and exchange rights that have not been exercised. Our board of directors may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine in its sole discretion. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Common and Preferred Shares We cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on our common shares. Although we expect to pay regular cash dividends following the separation, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to shareholders will fall within the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors' decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, limitations under our financing arrangements, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that it deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets. We cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we commence paying dividends. For more information, Please refer to the risk factor titled "We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying distributions at the current rate.." Our cash available for distribution to shareholders might be insufficient to pay distributions at any particular levels or in amounts sufficient to maintain our REIT qualification, which could require us to borrow funds in order to make such distributions. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, to our shareholders. We intend to make regular quarterly distributions whereby we expect to distribute at least 100% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders out of assets legally available thereof. Based on the amount of our REIT taxable income for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2014 as reflected in the summary historical combined financial data, the Company's annual dividend for that period would have been greater than $1.00 per share, assuming a distribution ratio of one of our shares for every two shares of SPG. However, our ability to make distributions could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are not within our control. For example, in the event of downturns in our financial condition or operating results, economic conditions or otherwise, we might be unable to declare or pay distributions to our shareholders to the extent required to maintain our REIT qualification. We might be required either to fund distributions from borrowings under our anticipated revolving credit facility or to reduce our distributions. If we borrow to fund distributions, our interest costs 32 Table of Contents could increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes), such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder's adjusted tax basis in its shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder's adjusted tax basis in its investment. To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder's shares, the distributions will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such shares. Your percentage of ownership in our company may be diluted in the future. In the future, your percentage ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise. We also anticipate granting compensatory equity awards to directors, officers, employees, advisors and consultants who will provide services to us after the distribution. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more additional classes or series of preferred shares having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common shares respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more such classes or series of preferred shares could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common shares. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the occurrence of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of the common shares. Certain provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of Indiana law, might prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common shares. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws will contain, and Indiana law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • The inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; • Restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to act by written consent without a meeting; • Advance notice requirements and other limitations on the ability of shareholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • The right of our board of directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval; • Limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove directors; • The ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • Restrictions on the number of shares of capital stock that individual shareholders may own; • Supermajority vote requirements for shareholders to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws; 33 Table of Contents • Limitations on the exercise of voting rights in respect of any "control shares" acquired in a control share acquisition, which we have currently opted out of in our amended and restated bylaws but which could apply to us in the future; and • Restrictions on an "interested shareholder" to engage in certain business combinations with us for a five-year period following the date the interest shareholder became such. We believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Several of the agreements that we expect to enter into in connection with the separation with SPG may require SPG's consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. These agreements will generally expire within two years of our separation from SPG, except for certain agreements that will continue for longer terms. The consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our common shares could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify SPG for any resulting taxes and related amounts, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Please refer to "Agreements with SPG in Connection with the Separation" under Item 1, "Business" for a more detailed description of these agreements and provisions. Our substantial shareholders may exert influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other shareholders. Following the separation and distribution, we expect that a substantial portion of our outstanding common shares will be held by a relatively small group of shareholders. This concentration of ownership may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of some or all of these shareholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the substantial shareholders, even if they are not acting in a coordinated manner, could allow them to influence our policies and strategy and could delay, defer or prevent a change of control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable to us and our other shareholders. In addition, the interests of any of our substantial shareholders, or any of their respective affiliates, could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other shareholders or the other substantial shareholders. A substantial shareholder or affiliate thereof may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 