D. Risk Factors,” that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. A. Operating Results Overview As a leading social media for people to create, share and discover Chinese-language content. Weibo combines the means of public self-expression in real time with a powerful platform for social interaction, as well as content aggregation and distribution. Since our inception in August 2009, we have achieved significant scale. In December 2014, we had 175.7 million MAUs and 80.6 million average DAUs, increasing from 129.1 million MAUs and 61.4 million average DAUs in December 2013, and 96.7 million MAUs and 45.1 million average DAUs in December 2012. Approximately 80% of our MAUs in December 2014 accessed Weibo through mobile devices at least once during the month. 70 Table of Contents We enable our advertising and marketing customers to promote their brands, products and services to our users. We offer a wide range of advertising and marketing solutions to customers, ranging from key accounts to Alibaba/e-commerce merchants to SMEs to individuals. We generate a substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of advertising and marketing services, including the sale of social display ads, promoted feeds and event-based ad products. We have developed and are continuously refining our SIG recommendation engine, which enables our customers to perform people marketing and target audiences based on user demographics, social relationships, interests and behaviors, to achieve greater relevance, engagement and marketing effectiveness on Weibo. The value we create for our users and customers is enhanced by our platform partners, which include media outlets and developers of games and other applications. Our platform partners contribute a vast amount of content to Weibo, broadly distribute Weibo content across their properties, and develop products and applications on our platform, enriching the experience of our users while increasing our monetization opportunities. We have revenue-sharing arrangements with some of our platform partners, including game developers. We began monetization of our platform in 2012 primarily through the sale of advertising and marketing services and, to a lesser extent, through game-related and other value-added services. We generate advertising and marketing revenues from social display ads, which we introduced in 2012, and mobile-adapted promoted marketing arrangements, such as promoted feeds which we launched in 2013. We have since experienced rapid revenue growth. Our revenues increased from $65.9 million in 2012 to $188.3 million in 2013 and further to $334.2 million in 2014. We had a net loss of $62.6 million in 2014, as compared to a net loss of $102.5 million in 2012 and a net loss of $38.1 million in 2013. The increase in our net loss in 2014 was primarily due to $47.0 million loss in fair value change of investor option liability. Major Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Major factors affecting our results of operations include the following: Popularity of Social Media. We have benefited from the growth in popularity of social media in China and in Chinese communities around the world. However, social media is relatively new, especially in China, and our results of operations will be affected by the extent to which social media continues to grow in popularity and becomes further integrated into people’s everyday lives. User Growth. Our revenues are ultimately affected by the growth in our active user base, and strategies we pursue to achieve active user growth may affect our costs and expenses and results of operations. We have experienced rapid user growth since our inception in August 2009. In general, the proportion of internet users in more economically developed tier 1 and tier 2 cities in China who use Weibo is higher than in other parts of China. The term “tier 1 cities” comprises the four cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, while “tier 2 cities” is commonly understood to include up to two dozen other large cities, mostly in the more developed coastal regions of China. Residents of tier 1 cities are early adopters of new technology and are influential in setting social trends, and this is also true of residents of tier 2 cities compared to residents of lower-tier cities and the rest of the country. Our ability to grow our active user base will depend in part on the success of our strategies to attract more new active users from lower-tier cities and towns in China. Our top priority currently is to grow user scale and user engagement especially on mobile, and we may not see these efforts translate into revenues and profits in the short term. We are at an early stage of monetizing our platform and our monetization model is new and evolving. Therefore, we are unable to gauge the period-to-period growth of our revenues based on any particular user traffic metric. Furthermore, our ability to monetize our user traffic depends to a large degree on how well the demographic profile and social interests of our users fit the audience profile that our advertising and marketing customers hope to reach at any given time. Our user growth rate may decrease as the size of our user base increases to an even larger scale, and due to the media nature of our platform, the growth of our users may not be linear. 71 Table of Contents User Engagement. Changes in user engagement could affect our results of operations, especially since we began generating revenues from promoted marketing arrangements in 2013. We need to motivate our users to engage actively with the content on our platform, both to secure an abundant supply of user-generated content for our users and to ensure that we have a broad audience to consume the advertising and marketing services that we sell. In particular, we need to further increase the use of Weibo on mobile devices, as we expect mobile usage in China and globally to increase at a faster rate than desktop computer usage for the foreseeable future. We plan to continue to enhance our user experience and engagement by improving our product features, offering new products, expanding our content offerings through collaboration with platform partners, developing and integrating more mobile applications to drive mobile user engagement, and continuing to refine Weibo’s SIG recommendation engine to improve relevance and targeting ability. Monetization. We have a very short history of monetizing our platform and we are still exploring the most effective ways of monetization without adversely affecting user experience. Furthermore, social media is still in the early stages of gaining acceptance as an effective means of advertising. We monitor user engagement and adjust our pricing strategies to optimize the value of our platform for our users and our advertising and marketing customers. We plan to increase the monetization of our platform by managing our inventory of advertising resources more effectively, improving the targeting capabilities of our advertising and marketing services, developing new products and formats for adoption by existing and new advertising clients, increasing mobile monetization, and continuing to expand our platform for application developers. We also plan to further diversify our monetization through growing our other services. We started monetizing our platform in 2012 by selling PC-based social display ads initially. We introduced mobile-adapted promoted marketing arrangements, such as promoted feeds, in the second quarter of 2013 to SMEs and then to key accounts in the second quarter of 2014. We cannot quantify the extent to which mobile usage of Weibo is substituting for, rather than incremental to, usage of Weibo through PCs, but we generally expect mobile usage to increase at a faster rate than usage through PCs for the foreseeable future. Since we are still at the early stage of monetization, we do not expect increasing use of Weibo on mobile devices would affect our financial performance in the near future. However, over the longer term, if more users use mobile devices to access Weibo in lieu of using PCs, our ability to grow our revenues would be dependent on the successful adoption of our mobile monetization, such as mobile-adapted promoted feeds and mobile games, which is in currently trial stage. Competition. We face significant competition both for the time and attention of Chinese internet users and for the advertising and marketing spending of companies that market to Chinese businesses and consumers. Social media is relatively new as a means of advertising and we compete for advertising and marketing budgets with a wide variety of traditional and new media. We must compete effectively for users and for advertising and marketing customers in order to grow our platform and increase our revenues. We intend to continue to invest in product development, technology infrastructure and our sales and marketing capabilities to address the competition we face. Products and Services Innovation. Social media is an innovative and fast-changing field, and we must develop innovative products and services that meet the disparate needs of users, advertising and marketing customers and platform partners and roll them out on a timely basis while controlling our product development expenses. We derive a significant portion of our advertising and marketing services revenues from the strategic alliance with Alibaba. Revenue from the strategic alliance is dependent on the development of new products and business models and the adoption of such solutions, which may cause our revenue from Alibaba to fluctuate sequentially. We plan to continue to make significant investments in product development and refining the capabilities of our SIG recommendation engine, and we may invest in or acquire businesses or assets to enhance our products, services and technical capabilities. Marketing and Brand Promotion. Part of our growth strategy is to attract new users and increase user engagement in less developed lower-tier cities and towns. To execute this strategy, we plan to engage in a variety of marketing and brand promotion campaigns across China, which may cause our sales and marketing expenses to increase significantly in the near future. Investment in Technology Infrastructure. Our technology infrastructure is critical to providing users, customers and platform partners access to our platform, particularly during major events when activities on our platform increase substantially. We must continue to upgrade and expand our technology infrastructure to keep pace with the growth of our business and to ensure that technical difficulties do not detract from user experience or deter new users, customers or platform partners from accessing our platform. As 4G and Wi-Fi become more widely available in China, we expect our users to share and consume more content in rich media format, such as photo, video and audio, which will require more infrastructure capacity, and costs to support, than text feeds. Investment in Talent. Our employee headcount has increased significantly since our inception and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. There is heavy demand in China’s internet industry for talented technical, sales and marketing, management and other personnel with necessary experience and expertise demanded by fast-growing, large-scale internet social media like Weibo. We must recruit, retain and motivate talented employees while controlling our personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation. 72 Table of Contents Taxation We generate the majority of our operating loss from our PRC operations and have recorded income tax provisions (benefits) for the periods presented. Income tax liability is calculated based on a separate return basis as if we had filed separate tax returns for all the periods presented. Cayman Islands We are not subject to income or capital gains tax under the current laws of the Cayman Islands. There are no other taxes likely to be material to us levied by the government of the Cayman Islands. Hong Kong Our subsidiary incorporated in Hong Kong, Weibo HK, is subject to Hong Kong profit tax at a rate of 16.5%. Hong Kong does not impose a withholding tax on dividends. China Weibo Technology, Weimeng and Weibo Interactive are incorporated in China and are subject to enterprise income tax on their taxable income in China at a standard rate of 25% if they are not eligible for any preferential tax treatment. Taxable income is based on the entity’s global income as determined under PRC tax laws and accounting standards. Weibo Technology is qualified as a software enterprise and is entitled to an exemption from the enterprise income tax for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. Weibo Technology was also qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise in 2014 and entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15%. As of December 31, 2014, Weibo Technology was still in an accumulative loss position. Weibo Technology, Weimeng and Weibo Interactive are also subject to VAT and related surcharges at a combined rate of 6.7%. Weibo Technology and Weimeng have been subject to VAT since September 1, 2012, and Weibo Interactive since July 1, 2013. Previously, these entities had been subject to business tax and related surcharges at a combined rate of 5.6%. Certain of our advertising and marketing revenues are also subject to cultural business construction fees at a rate of 3%. Dividends paid by our subsidiary in China, Weibo Technology, to our intermediary holding company in Hong Kong, Weibo HK, will be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10% unless they qualify for a special exemption. If Weibo HK satisfies all the requirements under the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income and receives approval from the relevant tax authority, then dividends paid by Weibo Technology to Weibo HK will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 5% instead. See “Item 3. D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to make payments to us, or the tax implications of making payments to us, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business or our financial condition.” If our holding company in the Cayman Islands, Weibo Corporation, were deemed to be a “PRC resident enterprise” under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, it would be subject to enterprise income tax on its global income at a rate of 25%. See “Item 3. D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—We and/or our Hong Kong subsidiary may be classified as a ‘PRC resident enterprise’ for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.” If Weibo HK were deemed to be a “PRC resident enterprise” under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, then dividends payable by Weibo HK to Weibo Corporation may become subject to 10% PRC dividend withholding tax. Under such circumstances, it is not clear whether dividends payable by Weibo Technology to Weibo Corporation would still be subject to PRC dividend withholding tax and whether such tax, if imposed, would be imposed at a rate of 5% or 10%. See “Item 3. D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to make payments to us, or the tax implications of making payments to us, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business or our financial condition.” 73 Table of Contents Inflation To date, inflation in China has not materially impacted our results of operations. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the year-over-year percent changes in the consumer price index for December 2012, 2013 and 2014 were increases of 2.5%, 2.5% and 1.5%, respectively. Although we have not been materially affected by inflation in the past, we can provide no assurance that we will not be affected in the future by higher rates of inflation in China. Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our combined and consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, appearing elsewhere in this annual report on form 20-F. The preparation of these combined and consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate these estimates, judgments and assumptions on an on-going basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our combined and consolidated financial statements: Basis of Presentation, Combination and Consolidation Weibo was founded by SINA, our parent company, in August 2009. Prior to the establishment of Weibo Corporation, the operations of Weibo business was carried out by various subsidiaries and VIEs of SINA. After the establishment of Weibo Corporation, Weibo HK, Weibo Technology and Weimeng, we gradually completed our reorganization before our initial public offering, including the acquisition of Weibo Interactive from SINA effective in December 2013. Since we and SINA are under common control, our combined and consolidated financial statements include the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows that were directly attributable to the Weibo business for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities have been stated at historical carrying amounts. In addition, our combined and consolidated financial statements have been prepared as if the current corporate structure, including the transfer of Weibo Interactive in December 2013, had been in existence throughout the periods presented. Only those assets and liabilities that were specifically identifiable to the Weibo business were included in our combined and consolidated balance sheets. For receivables related to us for which SINA first collects the payments from customers, such amount was recorded as accounts receivable due from SINA, any uncollectible losses arising from the accounts receivable due from SINA will pass through to us. For liabilities related to us for which SINA advanced the funding, such amount was included in the accrued liabilities due to SINA. Our combined and consolidated statements of loss and comprehensive loss consisted of all costs and expenses related to us, including costs and expenses related to us that were allocated from SINA. Allocations from SINA, including amounts allocated to cost of revenues, sales and marketing expenses, product development expenses and general and administrative expenses, were based on a methodology that took into consideration our proportion of the revenues, infrastructure usage and labor usage, among other things, that the management believes to be reasonable. Income tax liability was calculated as if we had filed separate tax returns for all the periods presented. 74 Table of Contents To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we provide substantially all of our services in China via Weimeng and its subsidiary since our reorganization. Weimeng holds critical operating licenses that enable us to do business in China. Most of our revenues, costs and net income (loss) in China are directly or indirectly generated through our VIE and its subsidiary. We have signed various agreements with our VIE to allow the transfer of economic benefits from our VIE and its subsidiary to us. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered the primary beneficiary of Weimeng and its subsidiary and combine and consolidate their results of operations, assets and liabilities in our financial statements. Our combined and consolidated financial statements may not be reflective of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows had we been operating as a stand-alone company during those periods. Our historical results for any period presented are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our combined and consolidated financial statements and the allocations made to us are reasonable, our basis of presentation and allocation methodologies required significant assumptions, estimates and judgments. Using a different set of assumptions, estimates and judgments would have materially impacted our financial position and results of operations. Fair Value Measurements Financial instruments All financial assets and liabilities are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the combined and consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. Accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. Accounting guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: · Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. · Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical asset or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. · Level 3 applies to asset or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable due from third parties, accounts receivable due from related party Alibaba, accounts receivable due from SINA and other related parties, prepaid expenses and other current assets, accounts payable, amount due to SINA, accrued liabilities due to third parties and employees, accrued liabilities due to related parties and deferred revenues approximates fair value because of their short-term nature. Long-Term Investments Long-term investments are comprised of investments in publicly traded and privately held companies. For equity investments over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method of accounting is used. For long-term investments in shares that are not common stock or in-substance common stock and that do not have readily determinable fair value, the cost method accounting is used. We use the equity method to account for ordinary-share-equivalent equity investments over which we have significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or otherwise control. 75 Table of Contents We monitor our investments accounted for under the cost method and equity method for other-than-temporary impairment by considering factors such as current economic and market conditions and the operating performance of the business and records reductions in carrying values when necessary. The fair value determination requires significant judgment to determine appropriate estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could affect the calculation of the fair value of the investments and the determination of whether any identified impairment is other-than-temporary. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and take the corresponding charge to the combined and consolidated statements of loss and comprehensive loss. The investments in marketable securities are held as available for sale and are reported at fair value. The treatment of a decline in the fair value of an individual security is based on whether the decline is other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is required to assess whether the impairment is other-than temporary. Our judgment of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on an assessment of factors including, but not limited to, our ability and intent to hold the individual security, severity of the impairment, expected duration of the impairment and forecasted recovery of fair value. Changes in the estimates and assumptions could affect our judgment of whether an identified impairment should be recorded as an unrealized loss in the equity section of our combined and consolidated balance sheets or as a realized loss in the combined and consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Long-Lived Assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in its subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. We assesses goodwill for impairment in accordance with ASC subtopic 350-20 (“ASC 350-20”), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other: Goodwill, which requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually and more frequently upon the occurrence of certain events, as defined by ASC 350-20. US GAAP provides the option to apply the qualitative assessment first and then the quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply the quantitative assessment directly. The qualitative approach starts the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors, which by taking into consideration of macroeconomics, overall financial performance, industry and market conditions and the share price of us, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If so, the quantitative impairment test is performed; otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying a quantitative assessment, the goodwill impairment test is quantitatively performed by comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. We adopted the option to apply the qualitative approach to assess its goodwill on the relevant reporting units. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets arising from acquisitions are recognized at fair value upon acquisition and amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, generally from two to five years. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill to be held and used are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of any impairment loss for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets that management expects to hold or use is based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Judgment is used in estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of the asset’s fair value. 76 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation All stock-based awards to employees and directors, such as stock options and restricted share units (“RSUs”), are measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the awards. Stock-based compensation, net of forfeitures, is recognized as expenses on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock options. The determination of estimated fair value of stock-based payment awards on the grant date using an option pricing model is affected by the fair value of our ordinary shares as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include the expected value volatility of us over the expected term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, a risk-free interest rate and expected dividends, if any. Options granted generally vest over four years. We recognizes the estimated compensation cost of service-based restricted share units based on the fair value of its ordinary shares on the date of the grant. We recognize the compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, over a vesting term of generally four years. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option and records stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. Prior to the initial public offering, the determination of estimated fair value of Weibo requires complex and subjective judgments due to our limited financial and operating history, unique business risks and limited public information on companies in China similar to us. We, with the assistance of an independent valuation firm, evaluated the use of two generally accepted valuation approaches. The income approach was used if a revenue model had been established, the market approach was used if information from comparable companies had been available, or a weighted blend of these two approaches was used if more than one was applicable, to estimate our enterprise value for purposes of recording stock-based compensation in connection with employee stock options and recording fair value changes for option liability to Alibaba. For the market approach, we selected guideline companies that engaged in a similar line of business with similar growth prospects and that were subject to similar financial and business risks. Prior to our initial public offering, the income approach was applied when the revenue model for us had been established and projections of revenues, costs and expenses, incremental working capital and capital expenditures became available as the business developed. After our initial public offering, the closing market price of the underlying shares on the last trading date prior to the grant dates is applied in determining the fair value of the options and restricted share units granted. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. Revenue Recognition Advertising and Marketing Revenues. Our advertising and marketing revenues are derived principally from online advertising and marketing, including social display ads and promoted marketing. Revenues are recognized only when the following criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) the price is fixed or determinable; (3) the service is performed; and (4) collectability of the related fee is reasonably assured. The majority of our revenue transactions are based on standard business terms and conditions, which are recognized net of agency rebates. Advertising arrangements involving multiple deliverables are broken down into single-element arrangements based on their relative selling price for revenue recognition purposes. We have adopted the new revenue recognition policy on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, which requires the arrangement consideration to be allocated to all deliverables at the inception of the arrangement on the following basis: (a) vendor-specific objective evidence of the selling price, if it exists; otherwise, (b) third-party evidence of the selling price. If neither (a) nor (b) exists, then we must use (c) our best estimate of the selling price of the deliverable. Currently, we primarily use vendor-specific objective evidence to allocate the arrangement consideration if such selling price is available. For the deliverables that have not been sold separately, our best estimate of the selling price is used, which has taken into consideration the pricing of advertising areas of our platform with similar popularity and advertisements with similar format and quoted prices from competitors and other market conditions. We recognize revenues on the elements delivered and defer the recognition of revenues for the undelivered elements until the remaining obligations have been satisfied. 77 Table of Contents Other Revenues. We generate other service revenues principally from fee-based services, including game-related services. Revenues from these services are recognized over the periods in which the services are performed, provided that no significant obligations remain, collection of the receivables is reasonably assured and the amounts can be accurately estimated. A majority of game-related revenues are generally generated from the purchase of virtual items by game players through our platform. We collect payments from the game players in connection with the sale of virtual currency, which will later be converted by the game players into in-game credits (game tokens) that can be used to purchase virtual items in online games. We remit certain predetermined percentages of the proceeds to the game developers when the virtual currency is converted into in-game credits. We have determined that the game developers are the primary obligors for the game-related services given that the game developers are responsible for developing, maintaining and updating the online games and have reasonable latitude to establish the prices of virtual items for which in-game credits are used. We view the game developers to be our customers, and our primary responsibility is to promote the games of the third-party developers, provide virtual currency exchange services, maintain the platform for game players to easily access the games and offer customer support to resolve registration, log-in, currency exchange and other related issues. Accordingly, we record game-related revenues net of predetermined revenue-sharing with the game developers. Virtual currencies in general are not refundable once they have been sold unless there are unused in-game credits at the time a game is discontinued. Sale of virtual currencies net of the game developer proceeds are recognized as revenues over the estimated consumption period of in-game virtual items, which is typically from a few days to one month after the purchase of in-game credits. Virtual currency sold for game-related services in excess of recognized revenues is recorded as deferred revenues. Game-related revenues recognition involves management judgments, such as the determination of the principal in providing game-related services and estimating the consumption period of in-game credits. We assess the estimated consumption period periodically, taking into consideration the actual consumption information, types of virtual items offered in the game and user behavior patterns, including average recharge interval and estimated user relationship on the game. Using different assumptions to calculate the revenue recognition of game-related revenues may cause the results to be significantly different. Any adjustments arising from changes in the estimate would be applied prospectively on the basis that such changes are caused by new information indicating a change in the user behavior pattern. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts which reflects our best estimate of amounts that will not be collected. We determine the allowance for doubtful accounts based on factors such as historical experience. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate and result in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Taxation Income Tax. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management is required to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the income taxes recorded in our combined and consolidated statements of loss and comprehensive loss. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates related to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income, such as income from operations. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates and, thus, materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Income tax liability is calculated based on a separate return basis as if we had filed separate tax returns for all the periods presented. 78 Table of Contents Uncertain Tax Positions. To assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for the tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. Under the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The FASB issued Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity, which changes the threshold for reporting discontinued operations and adds new disclosures. The new guidance defines a discontinued operation as a disposal that “represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity’s operations and financial results.” The standard is required to be adopted by public business entities in annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014, and interim periods within those annual periods. Entities may “early adopt” the guidance for new disposals. We are currently evaluating the impact on our combined and consolidated financial statements of adopting this guidance. In May 2014, the FASB issued, ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” The guidance substantially converges final standards on revenue recognition between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board providing a framework on addressing revenue recognition issues and, upon its effective date, replaces almost all exiting revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance, in current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenues to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, an entity should apply the following steps: · Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer. · Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract. · Step 3: Determine the transaction price. · Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. · Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. For a public entity, the amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those reporting periods. In April 2015, the FASB proposed a one-year delay in the effective date and companies will be allowed to early adopt as of the original effective date. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of this guidance on our combined and consolidated financial statements. In June 2014, the FASB issued a new pronouncement which requires that a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period is treated as a performance condition. A reporting entity should apply existing guidance in Topic 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation, as it relates to awards with performance conditions that affect vesting to account for such awards. The performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award. Compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. If the performance target becomes probable of being achieved before the end of the requisite service period, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost should be recognized prospectively over the remaining requisite service period. The total amount of compensation cost recognized during and after the requisite service period should reflect the number of awards that are expected to vest and should be adjusted to reflect those awards that ultimately vest. The requisite service period ends when the employee can cease rendering service and still be eligible to vest in the award if the performance target is achieved. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance will have a significant effect on our combined and consolidated financial statements. 79 Table of Contents In August 2014, the FASB issued Presentation of Financial Statements — Going Concern. This standard requires management to evaluate for each annual and interim reporting period whether it is probable that the reporting entity will not be able to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. If the entity is in such a position, the standard provides for certain disclosures depending on whether or not the entity will be able to successfully mitigate its going concern status. This guidance is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early application is permitted. We does not anticipate that this adoption will have a significant impact on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-02, “Consolidation (Topic 810) - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis”, which provides guidance for reporting entities that are required to evaluate whether they should consolidate certain legal entities. In accordance with ASU 2015-02, all legal entities are subject to reevaluation under the revised consolidation model. ASU 2015-02 is effective for public business entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2015-02 on the combined and consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our combined and consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated. This information should be read together with our combined and consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F. We only began to generate revenues in the first half of 2012, and 2013 was the first year in which we generated revenues for the entire fiscal year. Due to our limited operating history, period-to-period comparisons discussed below may not be meaningful and are not indicative of our future trends. See “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—We have a limited operating history in a new and unproven market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects.” For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 (in $ thousands) Combined and Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenues: Advertising and marketing revenues: Third parties 51,049 96,976 129,644 Related party Alibaba — 49,135 107,587 Other related parties — 2,315 27,551 Total advertising and marketing revenues 51,049 148,426 264,782 Other revenues 14,880 39,887 69,390 Total revenues 65,929 188,313 334,172 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues(1)(2) 46,429 59,891 83,599 Sales and marketing(2)(3) 40,380 63,069 120,314 Product development(2) 71,186 100,740 125,832 General and administrative(2) 5,778 22,517 25,719 Total costs and expenses 163,773 246,217 355,464 Loss from operations (97,844 ) (57,904 ) (21,292 ) Loss from equity method investments (1,340 ) (1,236 ) — Remeasurement gain upon obtaining control — 3,116 — Interest and other income (expenses), net(4) (4,853 ) (2,884 ) 6,758 Change in fair value of investor option liability — 21,064 (46,972 ) Loss before income tax expenses (benefits) (104,037 ) (37,844 ) (61,506 ) Income tax expenses (benefits) (1,551 ) 271 1,128 Net loss (102,486 ) (38,115 ) (62,634 ) Less: Net loss attributable to the non-controlling interests — — 744 Net loss attributable to Weibo (102,486 ) (38,115 ) (63,378 ) 80 Table of Contents Notes: (1) Including cost of revenues from related party of $3,484 thousand, nil and nil for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. (2) Stock-based compensation was allocated in costs and expenses as follows: For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 (in $ thousands) Cost of revenues 201 4,253 755 Sales and marketing 330 6,150 1,583 Product development 638 9,209 4,392 General and administrative 668 11,630 7,049 Total 1,837 31,242 13,779 (3) Including sales and marketing from related parties of nil, $878 thousand and $11,160 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. (4) Including interest expenses on amount due to SINA of $4,923 thousand, $6,709 thousand and $2,838 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from advertising and marketing services to customers, including social display ad arrangements and promoted marketing arrangements such as promoted feeds. We also generate revenues from fee-based services, including game-related services, VIP membership and data licensing. 2014 Compared to 2013 Our revenues increased by 77% from $188.3 million in 2013 to $334.2 million in 2014. · Advertising and marketing revenues. Advertising and marketing revenues increased by 78% from $148.4 million in 2013 to $264.8 million in 2014. Revenues from key accounts, who are large brand advertisers, grew by 17% from $81.6 million in 2013 to $95.7 million in 2014. The growth in key account revenues was mostly attributed to the introduction of new ad products, such as Weibo + TV and event-driven advertising offerings, the release of promoted feeds to key accounts in the second quarter of 2014, and the increase in user growth and engagement. Revenues generated from Alibaba were $107.6 million, representing an increase of 119% from 2013, and accounted for 32% of our total revenues in 2014. Revenues from SME customers grew 247% from $17.7 million in 2013 to $61.5 million in 2014. The strong growth in SME revenues was mainly attributed to the increase in the number of SME customers, which grew by 118% from approximately twelve thousand in 2013 to approximately twenty-six thousand in 2014. Self-service marketing was officially launched in 2014, and SME revenues included revenues from self-service marketing, which were insignificant. Customers of self-service marketing, mostly individuals and small businesses, were not included in the SME customer number. In 2014, mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 44% of total advertising revenues, as compared to 28% in 2013, which was attributed to the increase in mobile users. Mobile MAUs increased by 47% from 95.7 million in December 2013 to 140.8 million in December 2014. 81 Table of Contents · Other revenues. Other revenues increased by 74% from $39.9 million in 2013 to $69.4 million in 2014. The increase was mainly attributable to an increase in revenues generated from our game-related services and data licensing, which was launched in late 2013. Our revenues generated from game-related services increased by 46% from $22.9 million in 2013 to $33.3 million in 2014, resulting from an increase in average monthly revenue per paying account. Our revenues generated from data licensing increased by 288% from $5.9 million in 2013 to $22.7 million in 2014, representing 33% of our total other revenues in 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we adopted a new strategy for data licensing to promote advertising revenue growth. Consequently, revenue generated from data licensing declined from $5.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 to $2.9 million in the same period of 2014. We expect our revenues from data licensing to remain flat or decline on a sequential basis in the foreseeable future. 2013 Compared to 2012 Our revenues increased by 186% from $65.9 million in 2012 to $188.3 million for 2013. The increase in revenues was due to the growth of both advertising and marketing revenues and other revenues with the expansion of our user base and our introduction of new sources of revenues. As we only began to generate revenues in the first half of 2012 and continued to introduce new sources of revenues in subsequent quarters, this comparison is not indicative of future growth rates. · Advertising and marketing revenues. Our advertising and marketing revenues increased by 191% from $51.0 million in 2012 to $148.4 million in 2013, primarily due to the increase in revenues from our social display ads, including the revenues from Alibaba relating to the Business Cooperation Agreement dated April 29, 2013. Revenues from social display ads excluding Alibaba increased from $51.0 million in 2012 to $81.6 million in 2013. This increase was driven by the increase in the number of key accounts, who are our social display ad customers excluding Alibaba, from more than 260 in 2012 to approximately 350 in 2013, and the average spending per key account from approximately $195,000 in 2012 to approximately $231,000 in 2013. Advertising sold to Alibaba, accounted for $49.1 million, or 33% of our advertising and marketing revenues in 2013. To a lesser extent, the increase in our advertising and marketing revenues was also due to new forms of marketing services we introduced in 2013 to further monetize our platform, including promoted feeds. In 2013, there were over twelve thousand SME customers that purchased promoted marketing arrangements from us. Revenues from mobile advertising and marketing increased from $10.6 million in 2012 to $41.6 million in 2013 due to the introduction of promoted feeds to SMEs in the second quarter of 2013. Mobile revenues accounted for 66% of FST promoted fee revenues in 2013. · Other revenues. Our other revenues increased by 168% from $14.9 million in 2012 to $39.9 million in 2013. The increase was mainly due to relatively low revenues for game-related services and VIP membership in 2012 as we only began to monetize our platform during the first half of 2012. Our revenue from game-related services increased from $12.7 million in 2012 to $22.9 million in 2013. Our revenue from VIP membership increased from $2.2 million in 2012 to $11.1 million in 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of our VIP members from 0.4 million as of December 31, 2012 to 0.7 million as of December 31, 2013. Our introduction of additional sources of other revenues in 2013 to further monetize our user base and the content on our platform, including data licensing, also contributed to the increase. Costs and Expenses Our costs and expenses consist of cost of revenues, sales and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses, including costs and expenses allocated from SINA during the presented periods. Cost of revenues consists mainly of costs associated with the maintenance of our platform, which mainly include bandwidth and other infrastructure costs, labor costs and turnover tax levied on our revenues. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing and promotional expenses, personnel-related expenses and commissions. Product development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses and infrastructure costs incurred for new product development and product enhancements. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses and professional service fees. 82 Table of Contents 2014 Compared to 2013 Our costs and expenses increased by 44% from $246.2 million in 2013 to $355.5 million in 2014. · Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased by 40% from $59.9 million in 2013 to $83.6 million in 2014. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $13.0 million in VAT, in line with the revenue growth, an increase of $5.6 million in infrastructure costs, an increase of $4.3 million in cost associated with revenue share, as well as an increase of $3.2 million in labor costs, partially offset by a decrease of $3.5 million in stock-based compensation. We expect our cost of revenues in absolute terms to increase in the foreseeable future. · Sales and Marketing. Our sales and marketing expenses increased by 91% from $63.1 million in 2013 to $120.3 million in 2014. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $37.8 million in brand promotion and marketing expenses, including promotional expenses related to the 2014 World Cup, an increase of $20.1 million in personnel-related expenses as a result of increased headcount, wages and other personnel-related costs of our sales and marketing personnel to support our monetization efforts, partially offset by a decrease of $4.6 million in stock-based compensation. We expect our sales and marketing expenses in absolute terms to increase in the foreseeable future. · Product Development. Our product development expenses increased by 25% from $100.7 million in 2013 to $125.8 million in 2014. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $17.3 million in personnel-related expenses as we expanded our product development team to support new product development, product enhancement and SIG recommendation engine improvement efforts, and an increase of $5.8 million in infrastructure costs relating to our data center and other resources used by our product development team, partially offset by a decrease of $4.8 million in stock-based compensation. We expect our product development expenses in absolute terms to increase in the foreseeable future. · General and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses increased by 14% from $22.5 million in 2013 to $25.7 million in 2014, primarily due to an increase of $5.7 million in personnel-related expenses as we continued to establish our own supporting system separate from SINA following our initial public offering, partially offset by a decrease of $4.6 million in stock-based compensation. We expect our general and administrative expenses in absolute terms to increase in the foreseeable future. 2013 Compared to 2012 Our costs and expenses increased by 50% from $163.8 million in 2012 to $246.2 million in 2013. · Cost of Revenues. Our cost of revenues increased by 29% from $46.4 million in 2012 to $59.9 million in 2013, primarily due to an increase of $9.1 million in our VAT costs as a result of our higher revenues, an increase of $4.1 million in our stock-based compensation primarily related to the Alibaba transaction (see “Item 5A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates”), and an increase in labor costs. The increase was offset in part by a decrease in content licensing fees we paid to third parties. · Sales and Marketing. Our sales and marketing expenses increased by 56% from $40.4 million in 2012 to $63.1 million in 2013. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $9.7 million to $33.2 million in 2013 in marketing and promotional expenses to promote our products, an increase of $5.8 million in stock-based compensation primarily related to the Alibaba transaction, and an increase of $5.0 million in staff-related expenses related to our sales and marketing personnel resulting primarily from higher wages and other personnel-related costs, including commissions payable to our sales and marketing personnel. · Product Development. Our product development expenses increased by 42% from $71.2 million in 2012 to $100.7 million in 2013. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $12.4 million in staff-related expenses due to the expansion of our product development team, an increase in stock-based compensation costs of $8.6 million primarily related to the Alibaba transaction and an increase in infrastructure costs of $4.1 million representing data center expenses and other resources used by our product development team. 83 Table of Contents · General and Administrative. Our general and administrative expenses increased by 290% from $5.8 million in 2012 to $22.5 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $11.0 million in stock-based compensation primarily related to the Alibaba transaction and an increase of $1.4 million of bad debt provision expenses, primarily resulting from the increase in advertising and marketing revenues. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 2014 Compared to 2013 We had a net interest income of $6.8 million in 2014, as compared to a net interest expense of $2.9 million in 2013, resulting from an increase of $4.5 million in interest income, generated from the net proceeds of our initial public offering, and a decrease of $ 3.9 million in interest expense, as we settled the interest expense on the amount due to SINA in 2014 and had no interest-bearing loans thereafter. 2013 Compared to 2012 Our net interest expense decreased from $4.9 million in 2012 to $2.9 million in 2013, primarily due to an increase of $3.7 million in interest income, which was partially offset by a $1.8 million increase in interest expense. Interest expense accrued prior to the Alibaba transaction was waived by SINA on April 29, 2013. Change in Fair Value of Investor Option Liability We recorded a non-cash loss of $47.0 million in the change in fair value of investor option liability in 2014, primarily due to an increase in the fair value of the investor option liability from the beginning of the year to the initial public offering date, when the investor option was fully exercised, which was driven by an increase in the fair value of our ordinary shares. The increase in fair value of our ordinary shares was attributable to factors including our partnership with Alipay to offer a payment solution to our users and the fully exercise of Ali WB’s option. We had a gain of $21.1 million in change in fair value of investor option liability in 2013, primarily due to a decrease in the expected life of the investor option liability. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows and Working Capital The following table sets forth the movements of our cash and cash equivalents for the periods presented: For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 (in $ thousands) Net cash used in operating activities (103,642 ) (9,369 ) (24,679 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (136,526 ) (153,365 ) 21,045 Net cash provided by financing activities 229,368 406,753 42,695 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 18 (489 ) (2,035 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (10,782 ) 243,530 37,026 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 13,688 2,906 246,436 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 2,906 246,436 283,462 As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $122.8 million, $498.8 million and $449.9 million, respectively. Our principal sources of liquidity have been loans from our parent company, SINA, cash collected from advertising and marketing services as well as other services beginning in 2012, the private sale of ordinary and preferred shares to Alibaba in 2013 and the net proceeds from our initial public offering in 2014. The decline in our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2014 as compared to the amount as of December 31, 2013 was primarily due to the $276.6 million repayment of the amount due to SINA and relevant interests, and equity investments of $45.6 million, partially offset by the receipt of net proceeds of $301.3 million from our initial public offering in April 2014, which is net of offering expenses. Of our $449.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2014, our affiliated entities within China held $51.7 million, of which $9.3 million was held by our VIE and its subsidiaries, with the remaining balance held by our Cayman Island holding company and Hong Kong subsidiary. 84 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, we had $267.7 million outstanding interest-bearing loans payable to SINA. These loan amounts were advanced by SINA to fund the establishment of our subsidiaries or to provide working capital for the daily operations of our business. The loans are calculated based on actual spending incurred by SINA for the development of the Weibo business at each period end and presented as amount due to SINA in the combined and consolidated balance sheets. The combined and consolidated statements of loss and comprehensive loss reflected a charge for interest on amount due to SINA, as well as on amounts included as accrued liabilities due to SINA, at prevailing market interest rates by reference to the three-month time deposit rate of the People’s Bank of China, which ranged from 2.55% to 3.05%. The outstanding interest-bearing loans payable to SINA as of December 31, 2013 was repaid after our initial public offering. The balance of $1.7 million amount due to SINA as of December 31, 2014 represented the unpaid amount in relation to the allocated expense from SINA, which was interest-free and payable on demand. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance as of December 31, 2014 is sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, we may decide to enhance our liquidity position or increase our cash reserve for future expansions and acquisitions through additional capital and/or finance funding. The issuance and sale of additional equity would result in further dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could result in operating covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In utilizing the cash that we hold offshore, we may (i) make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary, (ii) establish new PRC subsidiaries and make capital contributions to these new PRC subsidiaries, (iii) make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or (iv) acquire offshore entities with business operations in China in offshore transactions. However, most of these uses are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: · capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, whether existing or newly established ones, must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts; and · loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local branches. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Foreign Exchange.” Substantially all of our future revenues are likely to continue to be in the form of RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval as long as certain routine procedural requirements are fulfilled. Therefore, our PRC subsidiary is allowed to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior SAFE approval by following certain routine procedural requirements. However, approval from or registration with competent government authorities is required where the RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. See “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Restrictions on the remittance of RMB into and out of China and governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to pay dividends and other obligations, and affect the value of your investment.” Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities in 2014 was $24.7 million. The difference between our net cash used in operating activities and our net loss of $62.6 million in 2014 was primarily due to $47.0 million in non-cash increase in fair value of investor option liability, an increase of $35.0 million in accrued liabilities, $23.1 million in depreciation and amortization, $13.8 million in stock-based compensation and a decrease of $4.7 million in interest payable on amount due to SINA, partially offset by an increase of $43.4 million in accounts receivable due from Alibaba, an increase of $12.7 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, an increase of $16.6 million in amount due from SINA and other related parties and an increase of $12.0 million in amount due from third parties. The increase in accrued liabilities primarily arising from the increased amounts due to employees payroll and bonus payable and increased payable for marketing expenses and sales rebates. Depreciation and amortization were primarily related to the servers, computers and other office equipment that we have purchased for conducting our business. The increases in accounts receivable and in prepaid expenses and other current assets were in line with our revenue growth. 85 Table of Contents Net cash used in operating activities in 2013 was $9.4 million. The difference between our net cash used in operating activities and our net loss of $38.1 million in 2013 was primarily due to an increase of $35.9 million in accrued liabilities due to third parties and employees, a decrease of $24.5 million in accounts receivable due from SINA, $21.5 million in depreciation and amortization and an increase of $12.6 million in deferred revenues, partially offset by an increase of $26.9 million and $21.3 million in accounts receivable due from third parties and Alibaba, respectively, and change in fair value of investor option liability of $21.1 million. The increase in accrued liabilities due to third parties and employees primarily arising from the increased amounts due to employees in connection with the Alibaba investment and increased payable for marketing expenses and sales rebates. Depreciation and amortization were primarily related to the servers, computers and other office equipment that we have purchased for conducting our business. The increases in deferred revenues and accounts receivable due from Alibaba and third parties were primarily due to the growth of our business. Net cash used in operating activities for 2012 was $103.6 million. The difference between our net cash used in operating activities and our net loss of $102.5 million during the same period was primarily due to an increase of $26.6 million in accounts receivable due from SINA and an increase of $3.1 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by $16.4 million in depreciation and amortization, an increase of $4.9 million in interest payable on amount due to SINA and an increase of $2.2 million in deferred revenues. The increase in accounts receivable due from SINA was primarily due to our commencing monetization of our platform in 2012. The depreciation and amortization were primarily related to the servers, computers and other office equipment that we purchased for conducting our business. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily included prepayments of rental expenses. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities in 2014 was $21.0 million. This was primarily due to the maturity of short-term investments of $321.2 million, partially offset by the purchase of short-term investments of $230.2 million, investment and prepayment in long-term investments of $45.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $14.7 million, and cash paid for business acquisition, net of cash acquired of $9.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities in 2013 was $153.4 million. This was primarily due to the purchase of short-term investments of $250.0 million, purchases of property and equipment of $12.0 million and investment and prepayment in long-term investments of $8.9 million, partially offset by the maturity of short-term investments of $117.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities for 2012 was $136.5 million. This was due to the purchase of short-term investments of $117.6 million, as well as purchases of property and equipment of $19.0 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities in 2014 was $42.7 million. This primarily consisted of a net proceeds of $306.5 million received from our initial public offering, funding of $15.8 million from SINA, partially offset by repayment of $269.0 million in principle loans to SINA, our payments for ordinary shares and repurchased vested options of $6.9 million associated with Alibaba transaction in 2013 and payment of offering expenses of $5.2 million. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2013 was $406.8 million. This primarily consisted of proceeds of $585.8 million received from Alibaba for the sale of our ordinary and preferred shares and funding of $26.6 million from SINA, partially offset by repayment of $159.8 million in loans to SINA and our payments for ordinary shares and repurchased vested options of $45.9 million. 86 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities for 2012 was $229.4 million. This was primarily due to funding of $233.7 million from SINA for operational purposes, partially offset by payments for ordinary shares and repurchased vested options of $4.3 million. The loans from SINA were presented as cash flow from financing activities in our combined and consolidated statements of cash flows, while cash payment for billings from SINA of costs and expenses allocated was presented under operating activities. Holding Company Structure Weibo Corporation is a holding company with no material operations of its own. We conduct our operations primarily through Weibo Technology, Weimeng, Weibo Interactive and its subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in China. As a result, our ability to pay dividends depends upon dividends paid to us by Weibo Technology, our PRC subsidiary. If Weibo Technology or any newly formed subsidiaries of our company incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing their debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends to us. In addition, Weibo Technology is permitted to pay dividends to us only out of its retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, each of Weibo Technology, Weimeng and Weibo Interactive is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds until such reserve funds reach 50% of its registered capital. In addition, each of Weibo Technology, Weimeng and Weibo Interactive may allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds, a discretionary surplus fund and an enterprise expansion fund at its discretion or in accordance with its articles of association. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2014, the amount restricted, including paid-in capital, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations, was approximately $163.0 million. Weibo Technology has never paid dividends and will not be able to pay dividends until it generates accumulated profits and meets the requirements for statutory reserve funds. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures are primarily incurred to purchase servers, computers and other office equipment. Our capital expenditures were $19.0 million in 2012, $12.0 million in 2013 and $14.7 million in 2014. We intend to fund our future capital expenditures with our existing cash balance. We will continue to make capital expenditures to meet the expected growth of our business. C. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc. Our success has benefited from our continuous efforts on intellectual property protection, including patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview — Intellectual Property” for a description of the protection of our intellectual property. D. Trend Information Other than as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we are not aware of any trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events for the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, income, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that caused the disclosed financial information to be not necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial conditions. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any unconsolidated third parties. In addition, we have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as shareholders’ equity, or that are not reflected in our combined and consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. Moreover, we do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or product development services with us. 87 Table of Contents F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014: Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in $ thousands) Operating lease commitments 19,789 11,489 8,300 — — Purchase commitments 65,265 58,498 6,528 123 116 Total 85,054 69,987 14,828 123 116 Operating lease commitments consist of the commitments under the lease agreements for our office premises. We lease our office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through 2017. Our leasing expense was $6.8 million, $8.8 million and $14.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The majority of the operating lease commitments are from our office lease agreements in China. Purchase commitments primarily include minimum commitments for internet connection and marketing activities. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding interest-bearing loans payable to SINA in the amount of $267.7 million. These loans were advanced by SINA to provide working capital for the daily operations of our business prior to our initial public offering. The interest-bearing loans were repaid to SINA after our initial public offering in June 2014. The balance of amount due to SINA as of December 31, 2014 was $1.7 million, representing the unpaid amount in relation to the allocated expense from SINA, which was interest free and payable on demand. G. Safe Harbor This annual report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events, including our future operating results and conditions, our prospects and our future financial performance and condition, all of which are largely based on our current expectations and projections. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in the sections entitled “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” “