D. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a history of operating losses. We expect to incur additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with an operating history limited to clinical development of one product and no approved products. To date, we have focused nearly exclusively on developing our product candidate, aramchol. We have funded our operations to date primarily through proceeds from the private placement of ordinary shares, convertible debt and our initial public offering on March 18, 2014. In addition, we have limited operating experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical industry. We currently have no products approved for marketing in the United States or any other jurisdiction and have not generated any revenue from product sales to date. We have incurred operating losses in each year since the inception of our predecessor in 2000. Our loss attributable to holders of our ordinary shares for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 was approximately $17.5 million and $9.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $36.7 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development program and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue in excess of our expenses. To date, we have not generated any revenue as our lead product candidate, aramchol, is still in clinical development and has not been approved by the FDA, nor has any other product candidate. We do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. We do not expect to generate revenue unless and until we obtain regulatory and marketing approval of, and commercialize, aramchol, or any other product candidate. We will continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses will likely increase as we: ·initiate and manage additional clinical trials for aramchol, and initiate additional research and development programs; ·seek regulatory approvals for our product candidate, or future product candidates, if any; ·implement internal systems and infrastructures, including, without limitation, hiring of additional personnel as needed and developing sales and marketing functions if and when our product candidate receives applicable regulatory approval; 6 ·seek to in-license additional products or technologies to develop; ·hire additional management and other personnel; and ·move towards commercialization of our product candidate and future product candidates, if any. We may out-license aramchol before it is approved by any applicable regulatory agency, commercialized and/or generates revenue, depending on a number of factors, including our ability to: ·obtain favorable clinical results from and progress the clinical development of aramchol; ·develop and obtain regulatory approvals in the countries and for the uses we intend to pursue for aramchol; ·subject to successful completion of registration, clinical trials and perhaps additional clinical trials of aramchol, apply for and obtain marketing approval in the countries we intend to pursue for aramchol; ·contract for the manufacture of commercial quantities of aramchol at acceptable cost levels if marketing approval is received; and ·establish external, and potentially in the future, internal, sales and marketing capabilities to effectively market and sell aramchol in the United States and other countries. Even if aramchol is approved for commercial sale for the treatment of NASH, or any other indications, it may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. In addition, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with seeking regulatory approval and commercialization. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product revenue, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable and would be unable to continue operations without additional funding. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our planned clinical trials and potential initiation of clinical trials for other indications. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for aramchol, we will likely initially incur significant expenses associated with sales, marketing and manufacturing by third parties, as well as continued research and development expenses. Furthermore, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Our operating history is limited to clinical development of one product, and our operations to date have been limited primarily to research and development, raising capital and recruiting scientific and management personnel and third-party partners. Therefore, it may be difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to commercialize or obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be accurate, and you may not be able to fully assess our ability to complete development and/or commercialize our product candidate, or any future product candidate, obtain regulatory approvals or achieve market acceptance or favorable pricing for our product candidate or any future product candidate. We have not yet commercialized any products and we may never be able to do so, and even if we do, the products may not gain market acceptance. We have not yet commercialized any products and we may never be able to do so. We do not know when or if we will complete any of our product development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates or successfully commercialize any approved products. Even if we are successful in developing products that are approved for marketing, we will not be successful unless these products gain market acceptance for appropriate indications at favorable reimbursement rates. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: 7 ·the timing of regulatory approvals in the countries, and for the uses, we intend to pursue with respect to the commercialization of our product candidates; ·the competitive environment; ·the acceptance by the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over other therapeutic products; ·the development of a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for the detection of NASH and ongoing management of the condition; ·the adequacy and success of distribution, sales and marketing efforts, including through strategic agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; and ·the pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, third-party payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend, and in the case of third-party payors, cover any of our planned future products. As a result, we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. Even if we successfully develop one or more products, we may not become profitable. We will likely need substantial additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. We currently estimate that our cash position will support our current clinical trials and operations into 2017, although there is no assurance of this. We will likely need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and to develop aramchol beyond its current development stage, and ultimately commercialize it. In addition, we may choose to expand our current research and development focus, or other clinical operations, which may also require additional capital. As of December 31, 2014, we had a net working capital of $31.8 million and cash and cash equivalents of $23.7 million. Our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including: ·our clinical trial results; ·exploration of the possibility to develop aramchol for the treatment of other conditions or indications, or possible label expansion of aramchol once its approved, if at all, for the treatment of other conditions or indications; ·the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and the cost of defending our patents; ·the cost of prosecuting infringement actions against third parties; ·the cost, timing and outcomes of seeking marketing approval of aramchol; ·the costs associated with commercializing aramchol if we receive marketing approval, including the cost and timing of establishing external, and potentially in the future, internal, sales and marketing capabilities to market and sell aramchol; ·subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue received from sales of approved products, if any, in the future; ·any product liability or other lawsuits related to our future product candidates or products, if any; 8 ·the demand for our products; ·the costs associated with developing and/or in-licensing other research and development programs; ·the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel; and ·the costs associated with being a public company. Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that our existing resources will be sufficient to enable us to maintain our currently planned operations, including our continued product development, into 2017, although there is no assurance of this. We believe these funds will enable us to complete any preparatory clinical and non-clinical work, as well as our planned Phase IIb clinical trial of aramchol for the treatment of patients with NASH in patients suffering from obesity and insulin resistance, which we refer to as our ARREST Study, and Phase IIa clinical trial of aramchol for the treatment of patients with cholesterol gallstones. We will require significant additional funds to initiate and complete additional clinical trials, including but not limited to a possible Phase III pivotal trial for the treatment of patients with NASH, and the FDA and EMA approval processes. However, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, such as losing our Small and Medium Enterprise status at the EMA, which entitles us to significant fee reductions. Because there are numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenditures associated with our anticipated clinical trials. We have no committed external sources of funds. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and additional financing may cause significant dilution to our existing shareholders. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to terminate or delay planned or ongoing clinical trials or other development activities for aramchol. Raising additional capital may be costly or difficult to obtain and will dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Any debt or equity financing that we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we obtain funding through a strategic collaboration or licensing arrangement, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. If we are unable to obtain required additional capital, we may have to curtail our growth plans or cut back on existing business, and we may not be able to continue operating if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations needed to stay in business. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities may dilute our current shareholders’ ownership in us and could also result in a decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares. The terms of those securities issued by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors and may include the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. We are unable to estimate our long-term capital requirements due to uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidate. If we fail to obtain necessary funds for our operations, we will be unable to maintain and improve our intellectual property and technology, and we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidate. Our long-term capital requirements are expected to depend on many potential factors, including, among others: ·the number of product candidates in development; ·the size, duration and scope of future clinical trials; 9 ·the regulatory path of our lead product candidate; ·the results of our clinical tests, which can be unpredictable in product candidate development; ·our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, including securing commercialization and out-licensing agreements with third parties and favorable pricing and market share; ·the progress, success and cost of our clinical trials and research and development programs, including those associated with milestones and royalties; ·the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review and obtaining regulatory approval of our lead product candidate and addressing regulatory and other issues that may arise post-approval; ·the breadth of the labeling, assuming that our product candidate is approved for commercialization by a relevant regulatory authority, which may not occur; ·our need, or decision, to acquire or in-license complementary technologies or new platform technologies or product candidate targets; ·the costs of enforcing our issued patents and defending intellectual property-related claims; ·the costs of investigating patents that might block us from developing potential product candidates; ·the costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; ·our revenue, if any; and ·our consumption of available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding sooner than anticipated. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary for our operations, we will be unable to maintain and improve our intellectual property and technology, and we will be unable to develop and commercialize aramchol, or other product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. We may become subject to the payment of taxes in connection with the Reorganization. On February 2, 2014, we underwent a reorganization, or the Reorganization, pursuant to which all of our current business (including our intellectual property) was transferred to us. The Reorganization was effected by way of share transfers and asset transfers, as follows: First, GHI, our predecessor, transferred the entire share capital of Galmed 2000 Inc., a holdings company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, or GTTI, to the Company; next, GTTI transferred the entire share capital of Galmed International Limited, a company incorporated in Malta, a European Union, or EU, member state, or GIL, to the Company; then, GIL transferred and assigned all of its intellectual property to Galmed Research and Development Ltd., a newly formed Israeli company, or GRD. GIL held all of the equity rights in and to Galmed Medical Research Ltd., an Israeli company, or GMR. In connection with the Reorganization, we obtained a tax pre-ruling, or the Tax Pre-Ruling, from the Israeli Tax Authority. The Tax Pre-Ruling confirms that the transfer of shares and assets resulting in the Company as the parent company and 100% equity-owner of GRD, which holds all of the Group’s intellectual property, including the Company’s patent portfolio, GIL and GTTI, is not taxable pursuant to the provisions of Sections 131 and 132 of the Income Tax Ordinance (New Version) — 1961, or the Israeli Tax Ordinance, as long as certain requirements are met. However, we have not obtained a tax pre-ruling from the tax authorities in the British Virgin Islands with respect to the transfer of the shares of GTTI and the transfer of the shares of GIL to the Company, or from the tax authorities in Malta with respect to the transfer of the intellectual property of GIL to GRD. We believe that such transfers of shares and assets are not taxable in the British Virgin Islands and Malta, respectively. However, there can be no assurance that we will not become subject to the payment of taxes in the British Virgin Islands, with respect to the transfers of shares as aforesaid, or in Malta, in connection with the transfer of the intellectual property as mentioned above. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company—Historical Background and Corporate Structure” below. 10 Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Regulatory Requirements We depend largely on the success of our product candidate, aramchol, and we may not obtain regulatory approval of aramchol. We have invested almost all of our efforts and financial resources in the research and development of aramchol, which is currently our only product candidate. As a result, our business is largely dependent on our ability to complete the development of, obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize aramchol in a timely manner. The process to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize aramchol is long, complex, costly and uncertain as to its outcome. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drugs are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in other countries. These regulations differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We are not permitted to market aramchol, or any other product candidate, in the United States until we receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from the respective regulatory agencies in such countries. We have not received regulatory clearance to conduct the clinical trials that are necessary to file an NDA with the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities in other countries or received marketing approval for aramchol. The results of clinical trials may be unsatisfactory, even if we believe those clinical trials to be successful, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, may not approve our NDA should we be in a position to file one. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. In particular, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that a product receives pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. This can result in substantial delays in such countries. In other countries, product approval depends on showing superiority to an approved alternative therapy. This can result in significant expense for conducting complex clinical trials. Finally, we do not have any products approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including international markets, and we do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals or if regulatory approvals in international markets are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be harmed. Marketing approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for aramchol. This would reduce our target market and limit the full commercial potential of aramchol. We may be forced to abandon development of aramchol, or other future product candidates, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues. Upon the completion of any clinical trial, the results might not support the claims sought by us. Further, success in earlier clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that aramchol is safe, tolerable and effective for the indicated uses. Any such failure may cause us to abandon aramchol and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination or suspension of, our clinical trials will delay the requisite filings with the FDA or other regulatory agencies and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. If the clinical trials do not support our product claims, the completion of development of such product candidate may be significantly delayed or abandoned, which will significantly impair our ability to generate revenues and will materially adversely affect our results of operations. 11 If we acquire or in-license additional technologies or product candidates, we may incur a number of costs, may have integration difficulties and may experience other risks that could harm our business and results of operations. We may acquire and in-license additional product candidates and technologies. Any product candidate or technologies we in-license or acquire will likely require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical or clinical testing, or both, and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities, if any. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate, or product developed based on in-licensed technology, will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any product candidate that we develop based on acquired or in-licensed technology that is granted regulatory approval will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted or competitive in the marketplace. Moreover, integrating any newly acquired or in-licensed product candidates could be expensive and time-consuming. If we cannot effectively manage these aspects of our business strategy, our business may not succeed. The clinical trial process is complex and expensive, and commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons. We may not be able to commence or complete the clinical trials that would support our submission of an NDA to the FDA, a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the EMA or any similar submission to regulatory authorizes in other countries. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. The fact that the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities permit a company to conduct human clinical trials is no guarantee that the trial will be successful. On the contrary, most candidate drugs that enter clinical trials do not prove to be successful and do not result in the filing of an NDA, MAA or similar filing. Drug candidates that prove successful at one clinical trial phase may prove unsuccessful at a subsequent phase. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements and in part because the results of clinical trials are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, may decline to permit a clinical trial to proceed or may suspend a clinical trial that it has previously cleared. Additionally, the clinical trial process is time-consuming, and failure can occur at any stage of the trials. We may encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: ·difficulties obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or duration of a clinical trial; ·delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ·insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; ·difficulties in obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; ·delays resulting from a decision of the FDA not to review an NDA for aramchol as a Breakthrough Therapy; ·challenges in recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size and nature of patient population, proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility and exclusion criteria for the trial, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications. 12 Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of inconclusive or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the principal investigator at a site, the IRBs at the sites where such boards are overseeing a trial or the data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, that is overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: ·irregularities in conducting a clinical trial, including by way of example, failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the FDA-cleared clinical protocols; ·inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; ·unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and ·lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trials. Although we have not experienced many of the risks involved with conducting clinical trials, including but not limited to, increased expense and material delay, to date, there can be no assurance that we will not experience such risks in the future as we progress with our planned clinical trials. To date, we have experienced a slight delay of approximately three months in the beginning of enrollment of our ARREST Study. Accordingly, we now expect to release the interim results of our ARREST Study in the first half of 2016, instead of in the second half of 2015 as originally planned. Furthermore, positive results in previous clinical studies of aramchol may not be predictive of similar results in future clinical trials. Also, interim results during a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials for aramchol may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials. Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA or EMA, or other regulatory agency, approval for their products. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory authorities find deficiencies in our regulatory submissions or the conduct of such trials. Any suspension of clinical trials will delay possible regulatory approval, if any, and adversely impact our ability to develop products and generate revenue. Lack of a reliable non-invasive method for the diagnosis of NASH is likely to present a major challenge to our product candidate’s market penetration, if ever commercialized. Liver biopsy is the standard approach for the diagnosis of inflammation and fibrosis associated with NASH. However, the procedure-related morbidity, sample errors, costs and lack of patient interest in participating in such studies limit its use. As such, only patients with a high risk of NASH, which includes patients with metabolic syndrome and an indication of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease, or NAFLD, are sent for liver biopsy. Because NASH tends to be asymptomatic, until the disease progresses, many individuals with NASH go undiagnosed until the disease has reached its late stages. The lack of a reliable non-invasive method for the diagnosis of NASH is likely to present a major challenge to aramchol’s market penetration, as many practitioners and patients may not be aware that a patient suffers from NASH and requires treatment. As such, use of aramchol might not be as wide-spread as our actual target market and this may limit the commercial potential of aramchol. A further challenge to aramchol’s market penetration is that currently a liver biopsy is the standard approach for measuring improvement in NASH patients. Because it would be impractical to subject all aramchol users to regular and repeated liver biopsies, it will be difficult to demonstrate aramchol’s effectiveness to practitioners and patients unless and until a reliable non-invasive method for the diagnosis and monitoring of NASH becomes available, as to which there can be no assurance. 13 Obtaining approval of an NDA, or other regulatory approval, even after clinical trials that are believed to be successful, is an uncertain process. Even if we complete our planned clinical trials and believe that the clinical data confirms that the drug is both safe and effective for its intended use, obtaining approval of an NDA, or similar regulatory application, is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA and other regulatory agencies may delay, limit or deny approval of aramchol for many reasons, including, without limitation, the fact that: ·we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agencies that aramchol is safe and effective for any indication; ·the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical significance required by the applicable regulatory agencies for approval; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that aramchol’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites; ·the data collected from preclinical studies and clinical trials of aramchol may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or similar regulatory application; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may not schedule an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the applicable regulatory agencies require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may require development of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy as a condition of approval; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may require simultaneous approval for both adults and children, which would delay required approvals, or we may have successful clinical trial results for adults, but not children, or vice versa; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations that may impede consideration or approval of our NDA, or similar regulatory application; ·the applicable regulatory agencies may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers, or suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, with which we enter into agreements for clinical and commercial supplies; and ·the applicable regulatory agencies may require post-marketing approval studies, such as Phase IV clinical trials, in connection with aramchol. 14 Before we can submit an NDA, or similar regulatory application, to the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, as applicable, we must conduct a Phase IIb clinical trial and pivotal Phase III clinical trials that will be substantially broader than our Phase IIa trial. We will also need to agree on a protocol with the FDA for both the Phase IIb and Phase III clinical trials before commencing those trials in the United States. Phase III clinical trials frequently produce unsatisfactory results even though prior clinical trials were successful. Therefore, the results of these additional Phase IIb or Phase III clinical trials that we conduct may or may not be successful. The applicable regulatory agencies may suspend all clinical trials or require that we conduct additional clinical, nonclinical, manufacturing, validation or drug product quality studies and submit data from these additional studies before considering or reconsidering the NDA or similar regulatory application. Depending on the extent of these, or any other studies, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the applicable regulatory agencies to provide regulatory approval. If any of these outcomes occur, we would not receive approval for aramchol and may be forced to cease operations. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for aramchol, the approval might contain significant limitations related to the intended uses for which the drug is approved, use restrictions including, without limitation, for certain labeled populations, age groups, warnings, precautions or contraindications, or may be subject to significant post-marketing studies or risk mitigation requirements. If we are unable to successfully commercialize aramchol, we may be forced to cease operations. Aramchol may produce undesirable side effects that we may not detect in our clinical trials, which could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of this product candidate and could substantially increase commercialization costs or even force us to cease operations. Even if aramchol receives marketing approval, we or others may later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, and in that event, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including, without limitation: ·regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product; ·regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings, so-called “black box warnings,” contraindications or restrictions on the product’s intended use; ·regulatory authorities may require us to issue specific communications to healthcare professionals, such as “Dear Doctor” letters; ·regulatory authorities may issue negative publicity regarding the affected product, including safety communications; ·we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or restrict or cease the distribution or use of the product; and ·we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase commercialization costs or even force us to cease operations. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur, which may result in necessary changes to clinical trial protocols, which could result in increased costs to us, delay our development timeline or reduce the likelihood of successful completion of our clinical trials. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance or unanticipated events during our clinical trials may occur as a result of which we may need to amend clinical trial protocols. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for review and approval, which may adversely affect the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for aramchol would be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue would be delayed, possibly materially. We cannot be certain that the results of our potential Phase III clinical trials, even if all endpoints are met, will support regulatory approval of aramchol for the treatment of NASH. Although progress has been made as indicated below, currently, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not have any clear guidance on which endpoints of a Phase III clinical trial would be sufficient for approval of a drug for the treatment of NASH. Therefore, notwithstanding this progress, the development pathway for aramchol is not entirely clear beyond Phase IIb, as no official guidelines have been published to date. 15 For example, the FDA recognizes that because NASH is characterized by a long asymptomatic natural history, it may be difficult to demonstrate efficacy in a Phase III clinical trial. However, it is precisely this type of demonstration, evidencing the “substantive evidence of effectiveness” of a drug that is required for drug approval. In certain limited and rare circumstances, the FDA permits drug developers to use a “surrogate endpoint” to demonstrate the clinical benefits of their drugs in the short term, the demonstration of which is sufficient for initial marketing approval. A surrogate endpoint is defined as a biomarker that is intended to substitute for a clinical endpoint, and which is expected to predict the clinical benefit or harm associated with a drug. Although the FDA has indicated at a workshop held in association with the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, or AASLD, and in the subsequent joint publication, that an acceptable surrogate endpoint for drugs targeting the early stages of NASH (i.e., fat infiltration and inflammation, as opposed to fibrosis) is resolution of NASH in liver biopsy, this has not been confirmed by any formal guidelines. It is possible that even if the results of our Phase III clinical trial demonstrate resolution of NASH in liver biopsy, the FDA will require longer-term studies of aramchol, such as Phase IV studies, prior to granting marketing approval. Even if aramchol, or any other product candidate that we may develop, receives marketing approval, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and any such product may still face future regulatory risks or new requirements. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, any such product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could negatively affect us by reducing revenues or increasing expenses, and cause the approved product candidate not to be commercially viable. In addition, as clinical experience with a drug expands after approval, typically because it is used by a greater number and more diverse group of patients after approval than during clinical trials, side effects and other problems may be observed over time after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or other studies. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in limitations on the use of the approved product, withdrawal of FDA approval of the previously approved product, or voluntary withdrawal from the marketplace of the approved product. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including the following: ·suspension or imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; ·refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to applications; ·suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; ·suspension or withdrawal of marketing approval; ·an injunction or imposition of civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; ·seizure or detainment of products; ·banning or restriction of imports and exports; ·issuance of warning letters or untitled letters; 16 ·suspension or imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or ·refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to applications. In addition, various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Costs arising out of any regulatory developments could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management resources and attention and, consequently, could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Delays in regulatory approval, limitations in regulatory approval and withdrawals of regulatory approval may have a material adverse effect on the Company. If we experience significant delays in testing or receiving approvals or sign-offs to conduct clinical trials, our product development costs will increase and our ability to out-license product candidates may be impeded. If we obtain approval to commercialize aramchol outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business. If aramchol is approved for commercialization outside the United States, we will likely enter into agreements with third parties to commercialize aramchol outside the United States. We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to entering into or maintaining international business relationships, including, without limitation: ·different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; ·differing U.S. and foreign drug import and export rules; ·reduced protection for intellectual property rights in foreign countries; ·unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; ·different reimbursement systems; ·economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; ·compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; ·foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; ·workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; ·production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; ·potential liability resulting from development work conducted by these distributors; ·business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters; and ·risks associated with clinical co-development agreements in other jurisdictions prior to or post-regulatory approval. 17 A failure to timely and effectively address the additional risks related to entering into or maintaining international business relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity operating results and financial condition. If we receive marketing approval for aramchol, sales will be limited unless the product achieves broad market acceptance. The commercial success of aramchol and any other future product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, will depend on the breadth of its approved labeling and upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community, including physicians, patients and healthcare payors. The degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: ·demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; ·ability of physicians to accurately diagnose NASH in its early stages; ·the relative convenience and ease of administration; ·the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; ·limitations or warnings contained in the product’s approved labeling; ·distribution and use restrictions imposed by the FDA, or other regulatory agencies, or agreed to by us as part of a mandatory or voluntary risk management plan; ·availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of aramchol, a number of competitive products already approved or expected to be commercially launched in the near future; ·pricing and cost effectiveness; ·the effectiveness of our, or any future collaborators’, sales and marketing strategies; ·our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and ·the willingness of patients to pay for drugs out of pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. If aramchol is approved, but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of the product may require significant resources and may never be successful. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. In particular, any labeling approved by FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies for aramchol necessarily limits its use for certain conditions in certain patient populations. Also, regulatory agencies may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of aramchol as part of a mandatory plan, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. If we receive marketing approval for aramchol, physicians may nevertheless prescribe aramchol to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses or knowingly acquiesced in such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. In particular, the U.S. federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. 18 We may be subject to extensive environmental, health and safety, and other laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. Our business involves the controlled use, through our service providers, of hazardous materials, various biological compounds and chemicals, and as such, we, our agents and our service providers may be subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, water and wastewater discharges, noise emissions, the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident, spill or release of any regulated chemicals or substances occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, including for investigation, remediation and monitoring of the contamination, including natural resource damages, the costs of which could be substantial. We may incur substantial capital costs and operating expenses and may be required to obtain consents to comply with any environmental and health laws or regulations and the terms and conditions of any permits required pursuant to such laws and regulations, including costs incurred by us to install new or updated pollution control equipment for our service providers, modify our operations or perform other corrective actions at our facilities or the facilities of our service providers. In addition, fines and penalties may be imposed on us, our agents and/or our service providers for noncompliance with environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations or for the failure to have, or comply with the terms and conditions of, required environmental or other permits or consents. We expect the healthcare industry to face increased limitations on reimbursement, rebates and other payments as a result of healthcare reform, which could adversely affect third-party coverage of our products and how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. In both the United States and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, which include governmental authorities, managed care organizations and other private health insurers. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in U.S. Congress, or Congress, and in some state legislatures, including reducing reimbursement for prescription products and reducing the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for most pharmaceutical products in a number of ways. Medicare is the single largest third-party payment program and is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS. Medicare traditionally covered prescription drugs administered by physicians. The Modernization Act introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for many of these drugs. The Modernization Act also established a new competitive acquisition program for the purchase of Part B drugs. This program, when fully implemented, will likely reduce the prices of these drugs. While the Medicare provisions of the Modernization Act apply only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from federal legislation or regulation may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. Most notably, the Modernization Act also expanded coverage through a new Part D to include ordinary self-administered outpatient drugs. Medicare part D though operates through private insurers, and these insurers negotiate prices with pharmacies and with manufacturers. Intense negotiations can result in reduced revenues to manufacturers. 19 Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in U.S. Congress, or Congress, and in some state legislatures, including reducing reimbursement for prescription products and reducing the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Affordable Care Act, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers and impose additional health policy reforms. The Affordable Care Act expanded manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to include covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, increased the minimum rebate due for innovator drugs from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP. The rebate on innovator drugs is the greater of 23.1% of the AMP per unit or the difference between the AMP and the best price per unit and adjusted by the Consumer Price Index-Urban (CPI-U) based on a launch date and current quarter AMP. The total rebate amount for innovator drugs is capped at 100.0% of AMP. The Affordable Care Act and subsequent legislation also narrowed the definition of AMP. Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act imposes a significant annual, nondeductible fee on companies that manufacture or import certain branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance were also been enacted, which may affect our business practices with healthcare practitioners. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Affordable Care Act, it appears likely to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. More recently, in August 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of an amount greater than $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to healthcare providers of up to 2.0% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several categories of healthcare providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. If we ever obtain regulatory approval and commercialization of aramchol, these new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of aramchol may be. Further, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2010, directed CMS to contract a vendor to determine “retail survey prices for covered outpatient drugs that represent a nationwide average of consumer purchase prices for such drugs, net of all discounts and rebates (to the extent any information with respect to such discounts and rebates is available).” This survey information can be used to determine the National Average Drug Acquisition Cost, or NADAC. Some states have indicated that they will reimburse based on the NADAC and this can result in further reductions in the prices paid for various outpatient drugs. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of existing legislation or the enactment of additional legislation pursuant to healthcare and other legislative reform, we believe that legislation or regulations that would reduce reimbursement for, or restrict coverage of, our products could adversely affect how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. This could materially and adversely affect our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of pharmaceutical products, which may adversely impact product sales. 20 It will be difficult for us to profitably sell aramchol, if reimbursement for the product is limited by government authorities and third-party payor policies. In addition to any healthcare reform measures which may affect reimbursement, market acceptance and sales of aramchol will depend on the reimbursement policies of government authorities and third-party payors. It will be difficult for us to profitably sell aramchol if reimbursement for the product is limited by government authorities or third-party payors. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. We cannot be sure that coverage or reimbursement will be available for aramchol and, if coverage and reimbursement are available, the extent of coverage and the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may affect the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement in order to limit off-label use of a higher priced drug. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: •a covered benefit under its health plan; •safe, effective and medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; and •neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost effectiveness data for the use of our products to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. We cannot be sure that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be available for our future products. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our future products. If reimbursement is not available, or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidate, or any future product candidates, profitably, or at all, even if approved. In addition, if physicians, government agencies and other third-party payors do not accept the use or efficacy of aramchol, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, if any. Governments outside the United States tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any. In some countries, particularly the countries of the EU, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be harmed, possibly materially. We are subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have adverse consequences to us. There are extensive U.S. federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry that can result in significant criminal and civil penalties. These federal laws include: The anti-kickback statute, which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other federal healthcare programs; the physician self-referral prohibition, commonly referred to as the Stark Law; the anti-inducement law, which prohibits providers from offering anything to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to induce that beneficiary to use items or services covered by either program; the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent or abusive acts. In addition, the Affordable Care Act requires drug manufacturers to report to the government any payments to physicians and certain hospitals for consulting services and the like. 21 Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both, and debarment. As federal and state budget pressures continue, federal and state administrative agencies may also continue to escalate investigation and enforcement efforts to root out waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 and again in 2009 and 2010 that were designed to encourage private persons to sue on behalf of the government. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. An investigation into the use by physicians of any of our products, once commercialized, may dissuade physicians from either purchasing or using them, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize those products. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, our financial results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Before an NDA is approved, and before we begin the commercial manufacture of aramchol, contract manufacturers must obtain regulatory approval of their manufacturing facilities, processes and quality systems. In addition, pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are continuously subject to inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities before and after product approval. Due to the complexity of the processes used to manufacture pharmaceutical products and product candidates, any potential third-party manufacturer may be unable to continue to pass or initially pass federal, state or international regulatory inspections in a cost effective manner, if at all. The FDA and foreign regulators require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with requirements that the FDA or foreign regulators establish. We do not intend to engage in the manufacture of our products other than for preclinical and clinical studies, but we or our materials suppliers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing product production and shipment delays or a situation where we or the supplier may not be able to maintain compliance with the FDA’s or foreign regulators’ requirements necessary to continue manufacturing our product candidate. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, and corresponding foreign regulators to ensure strict compliance with requirements and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Any failure to comply with DEA, FDA or foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to develop and market our product candidate and any future product candidates. If a third-party manufacturer with whom we contract is unable to comply with manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to fines, unanticipated compliance expenses, recall or seizure of our products, total or partial suspension of production and/or enforcement actions, including injunctions, and criminal or civil prosecution. These possible sanctions could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, aramchol or any other product candidate that we develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. There are a number of products in development for NASH in patients who also suffer from obesity and insulin resistance, most of which are being developed by pharmaceutical companies that are far larger than us, with significantly greater resources and more experience than us. Further, our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include large, fully-integrated pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. All of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of new pharmaceuticals, some of which may compete with aramchol or other product candidates. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. These companies may have products in development that are superior to aramchol. Key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of aramchol and any other product candidates that we develop are likely to be efficacy, time of onset, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. 22 Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than us in obtaining FDA and other marketing approvals for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render aramchol or any other product candidates that we develop obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing the product. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render aramchol, or any other product candidate that we develop, non-competitive or obsolete. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing products, our marketing and sales will suffer and we may never be profitable. Our competitors currently include companies with marketed products and/or an advanced research and development pipeline. The majority of competitors in the liver disease therapeutic field include Intercept Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Genfit S.A. and Gilead Sciences, Inc. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition.” Moreover, several companies have reported the commencement of research projects related to NASH, including those mentioned in the preceding sentence. However, we are not aware if such projects are ongoing or have been completed and, to the best of our knowledge, there is no approved drug currently on the market which is similar to aramchol, nor are we aware of any product candidate targeting NASH similar to aramchol with respect to chemical profile and mechanism of action. We face potential product and other liability exposure, and, if claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. Our products and product candidates could cause adverse events. These adverse events may not be observed in clinical trials, but may nonetheless occur in the future. If any of these adverse events occur, they may render our product candidates ineffective or harmful in some patients, and our sales would suffer, materially adversely affecting our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, potential adverse events caused by our product candidates, or products, could lead to product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in, among other things: ·decreased demand for aramchol or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval; ·impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity; ·increased warnings on product labels; ·withdrawal of clinical trial participants; ·costs of related litigation; ·distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; ·substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; ·loss of revenue; and 23 ·the inability to successfully commercialize aramchol or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Although our clinical studies to date indicate that aramchol is safe and well-tolerated at single doses up to 900 mg, at doses up to 600mg administered once-daily for up to ten days and at doses up to 300 mg administered once-daily for up to three months, there were incidences of non-serious adverse events in four completed and fully analyzed clinical trials. Those four studies enrolled 168 patients. In our Phase Ia clinical trial we enrolled 17 healthy volunteers. A total of 34 adverse events were reported in nine subjects. All adverse events were mild or moderate and transient and resolved without sequelae. There were no serious adverse events, deaths or other significant adverse events observed in this study. In our Phase Ib placebo-controlled clinical trial with 25 healthy and mildly overweight male volunteers a total of 64 adverse events were reported by 80% of the patients. A higher proportion of patients reported drug-related adverse events in the placebo group (88.9%) compared to the 30 mg active group (55.6%) and the 300 mg active group (71.4%). All adverse events were mild or moderate and resolved without sequelae. There were no serious adverse events, deaths or other significant adverse events. We completed a pharmacokinetic, or PK, and food effect study in 66 healthy male volunteers consisting of three parts. Overall, over the three parts of the study, the vast majority of adverse events were mild and unrelated to aramchol and all of the adverse events were transient and gave no indication of target organ toxicity. All doses of aramchol administered during the study were safe and well-tolerated. No serious adverse events or deaths occurred during the study. No clinically significant abnormalities related to any aramchol dose were noted in electrocardiograms, or ECGs, laboratory results, vital signs or physical examinations. In our Phase IIa placebo-controlled trial with 60 patients with steatosis due to NAFLD or NASH, most adverse events were mild and transient, except for three (mild asthenia, mild nausea and moderate back pain), which were initially considered to be related to the study drug; however, after unblinding the study results it was found that the three adverse events occurred in the placebo group. There was one serious adverse event reported, acute appendicitis that was unrelated to study drug, which occurred in a patient taking the placebo. The patient fully recovered from the serious adverse event without sequelae and completed the study treatment. There were no deaths or other significant adverse events reported in this study. If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance to protect our business and property against damage, and from any losses or claims from third parties, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties, which are not covered, or adequately covered, by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, our insurance may be inadequate. We have obtained insurance coverage for our clinical trials in accordance with market standards and in compliance with applicable Israeli law. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for aramchol, or any other product candidate, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. A successful product liability claim, or series of claims, brought against us could cause our share price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 24 The product liability insurance we will need to obtain in connection with the commercial sales of our product candidates, if and when they receive regulatory approval, may be unavailable in meaningful amounts or at a reasonable cost. If we are the subject of a successful product liability claim that exceeds the limits of any insurance coverage we obtain, we would incur substantial charges that would adversely affect our earnings and require the commitment of capital resources that might otherwise be available for the development and commercial launch of our product programs. We manage our business through a small number of senior executive officers. We depend on them even more than similarly- situated companies. Our future growth and success depends on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our senior executive officers. The loss of the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Maureen Graham and Dr. Antony Appleyard or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior executive officers with scientific and technical experience. In particular, the loss of one or more of our senior executive officers could be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. We do not currently carry “key person” insurance on the lives of members of senior management. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. Additionally, our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors could also be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in obtaining adequate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. We may be unable to maintain sufficient insurance as a public company to cover liability claims made against our officers and directors. If we are unable to adequately insure our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage the Company. Failure to build our finance infrastructure and improve our accounting systems and controls could impair our ability to comply with the financial reporting and internal control requirements for publicly traded companies. As a public company, we will operate in an increasingly challenging regulatory environment which requires us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and securities exchanges, expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, until the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, because we are taking advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until, subject to certain conditions, the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. To date, our independent public accountant has never conducted a review of our internal control for the purpose of providing the reports required by these rules. During the course of our review and testing, we may identify deficiencies and be unable to remediate them before we must provide the required reports. Furthermore, if we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and cause the trading price of our stock to fall. 25 To build our finance infrastructure, we will need to improve our accounting systems, disclosure policies, procedures and controls. If we are unsuccessful in building an appropriate accounting infrastructure, we may not be able to prepare and disclose, in a timely manner, our financial statements and other required disclosures, or comply with existing or new reporting requirements. Any failure to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis could result in sanctions, lawsuits, delisting of our shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market or other adverse consequences that would materially harm our business. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. We will need to significantly increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We may experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. Successful implementation of our business plan will require management of growth, which will result in an increase in the level of responsibility for management personnel. We currently have a minimum number of employees and in order to continue the development and the commercialization of our products, we will need to substantially increase our operations, including expanding our employee base of managerial, operational and financial personnel. We currently intend to establish our infrastructure in the United States and therefore we may require additional funds. Any future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. To that end, we must be able to, among other things: ·manage our clinical trials and the regulatory process effectively; ·develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; ·hire and train additional qualified personnel; and ·integrate current and additional management, administrative, financial and sales and marketing personnel. If we are unable to establish, scale-up and implement improvements to our control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, investors may choose not to invest in us, which could cause our share price to decline and negatively impact our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidate and future product candidates. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth or result in ineffective growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our losses could materially increase and it will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, including our ability to raise capital, may be affected by macroeconomic conditions. A deterioration in global economic conditions and uncertainties may have an adverse effect on our business. For instance, interest rates, the liquidity of the credit markets and the volatility of the capital markets could also affect the value of our investments, if any, and our ability to liquidate such investments in order to fund our operations. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could also adversely affect the ability of patients and distributors to purchase, pay for and effectively distribute our products. Moreover, in past years, the U.S. and global economies have taken a downturn as the result of the deterioration in the credit markets and related financial crisis as well as a variety of other factors including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The U.S. and certain foreign governments have recently taken actions in an attempt to address and rectify these extreme market and economic conditions by providing liquidity and stability to the financial markets. If the actions taken by these governments are not successful, the continued economic decline may cause a significant impact on our ability to raise capital, if needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we rely and intend to rely on third-parties, including our clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers and second source suppliers, and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third-parties are unable to satisfy their contractual commitments to us, our business could be severely adversely affected. The Israeli Ministry of Health may not permit us to conduct multiple biopsies as contemplated in our ARREST Study of aramchol in Israel. On March 9, 2015, we announced that we had begun the enrollment stage of our Phase IIb ARREST Study of aramchol in 240 biopsy-diagnosed NASH patients. While the primary endpoint of the study is a significant reduction of liver fat, as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, or MRS, the main secondary endpoint of the ARREST Study is resolution of NASH on biopsies, which can be assessed only at the completion of the study and by repeated liver biopsies. We are conducting a portion of our ARREST Study in Israel. While, the Israeli Ministry of Health has granted us approval to conduct our ARREST Study in 14 centers in Israel, it has taken exception to the necessity of conducting a second biopsy at the end of the trial period, as specified by the trial protocol. As this position is inconsistent with the already established guidance by the FDA and the EMA, it was unexpected. We are not expecting that the Israeli Ministry of Health will reverse its preliminary position, and as such, we reconfigured our recruitment targets in Israel to include patients who have undergone liver biopsies no more than six months prior to enrolling in the ARREST Study. However, there is still a possibility of the Israeli Ministry of Health reversing its preliminary position as multiple parties unrelated to us, including leading Israeli hematologists and gastroenterologists, are conducting ongoing discussions with the Israeli Ministry of Health to attempt to convince it to reconsider its original position for a variety of reasons. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we will also continue a close dialogue with the Israeli Ministry of Health, especially after we obtain the interim results from the ARREST Study, to continuously assess the Israeli Ministry of Health’s willingness to allow a second biopsy. 26 Contemporaneously, we also announced on March 9, 2015 that we had expanded our clinical activities to include patient recruitment for the ARREST Study in the United States. Professor Vlad Ratziu, from the University Pierre et Marie Curie in Paris, an internationally acclaimed key opinion leader, is the ARREST Study’s global principal investigator, and Professor Rohit Loomba, from the University of California San Diego School of Medicine, is the ARREST Study’s U.S.-based principal investigator. We expanded our patient recruitment into the United States because we believe that U.S.-based patient recruitment will shorten the recruitment time for our ARREST Study, especially considering the Israeli Ministry of Health’s current position on the requirement of a second liver biopsy. We also believe that expanding our clinical activities into the United States will improve the ARREST Study’s breadth and relevance, including potentially allowing us to immediately commence Phase III clinical trials in NASH in the United States without any addition clinical requirements, although there is no assurance. Phase IIb clinical operations in the United States may divert a significant amount of Company resources and may ultimately be unsuccessful. We are expanding our clinical operations for Phase IIb to the United States, which will require significant time, funds and Company resources. We believe that the United States has a larger population of potential patients from which we can recruit for our ARREST Study than Israel, and we believe that the FDA is more likely to accept our trial protocol, which requires repeated liver biopsies, than the Israeli Ministry of Health. In March 2015, we submitted to the FDA an update of our existing Investigational New Drug, or IND, filing, in order to initiate the ARREST Study in the United States. However, there is no assurance that the FDA will clear our updated IND request. Furthermore, even if the FDA clears our updated IND request, we may not have the time, funds or resources necessary to complete the ARREST Study in the United States. Moreover, even to the extent the ARREST Study is conducted, such study may ultimately prove to be unsuccessful. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties We have no manufacturing capacity and anticipate reliance on third-party manufacturers for our products. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for the production of aramchol or its API. We still have not, and may never, develop facilities for the manufacture of product candidates or products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. We rely, and for the foreseeable future, will continue to rely, on third-party manufacturers to produce bulk drug products required for our clinical trials. We plan to initially rely upon contract manufacturers and, potentially, collaboration partners, to manufacture commercial quantities of our product candidates, if and when approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory authorities. Our contract manufacturers have not completed process validation for aramchol or the aramchol API manufacturing processes. If our contract manufacturers and their facilities, as applicable, are not approved by the FDA, or other applicable regulatory authorities, our commercial supply of the drug substance will be significantly delayed and may result in significant additional costs. We purchase finished aramchol from a third-party under a clinical supply agreement. If we need to identify an additional finished product manufacturer, we would not be able to do so without significant delay and likely significant additional cost. Our contract manufacturer’s failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product shortages, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Our existing manufacturers and any future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business. In the event of a natural disaster, business failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace a third-party manufacturer in a timely manner and the production of aramchol would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. We intend to rely primarily on third parties to market and sell aramchol. We have no sales or distribution capabilities. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize aramchol, if marketing approval is obtained, we may receive less revenue than if we commercialize aramchol ourselves. In addition, we would have less control over the sales efforts of any third parties involved in our commercialization efforts. In the event we are unable to collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization to commercialize aramchol, particularly for broader patient populations, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Although we may ultimately develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities in the longer term, we do not currently intend to do so and as such, we will be unable to market our product candidate directly in the near future. To promote any of our potential products through third parties, we will have to locate acceptable third parties for these functions and enter into agreements with them on acceptable terms, and we may not be able to do so. Any third-party arrangements we are able to enter into may result in lower revenues than we could achieve by directly marketing and selling our potential products. In addition, to the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of our agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted in most cases at this time. As a result, we might not be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas, which would have a material adverse effect on us. 27 Any collaboration arrangements that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future product candidates. We intend to seek collaboration arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for the development and commercialization of our current and potential future product candidates. We will face, to the extent that we decide to enter into collaboration agreements, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any collaborations or other arrangements that we may establish may not be favorable to us. Any future collaborations that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. Disagreements between parties to a collaboration arrangement regarding clinical development and commercialization matters can lead to delays in the development process or commercializing the applicable product candidate and, in some cases, termination of the collaboration arrangement. These disagreements can be difficult to resolve if neither of the parties has final decision making authority. Moreover, collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies and other third parties are often terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Any lack of effort or ability by our collaborators or any such disagreement, termination or expiration could adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. We depend on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to oversee most of the operations of our clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in accordance with regulatory requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations and meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our financial results and the commercial prospects for aramchol or any other potential product candidates could be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales could be delayed. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The failure to obtain or maintain patents, licensing agreements and other intellectual property rights that are sufficiently broad and protective could impact our ability to compete effectively. To compete effectively, we must develop and maintain a proprietary position with regard to our own technologies, intellectual property, licensing agreements, product candidates and business. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical fields are still evolving. We cannot predict the scope and extent of patent protection for aramchol because the patent positions of pharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights in our core technologies and any product candidates or products that might be developed using these technologies is also uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include, but are not limited to, the following: ·while the patents we own have been issued, pending patent applications we have filed may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; ·we may be subject to interference or reexamination proceedings; ·we may be subject to opposition proceedings in foreign countries; ·any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection for any significant period of time, if at all; ·any issued patents may not be broad or strong enough to prevent competition from other products including identical or similar products; ·we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; ·there may be prior art of which we are not aware that may affect the validity or enforceability of a patent claim; ·there may be other patents or pending patent applications existing in the patent landscape for aramchol that will affect our freedom to operate; ·other companies may challenge and invalidate patents licensed or issued to us or our customers; 28 ·a court could determine that a competitor’s technology or product does not infringe our patents; ·other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technologies; ·other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed; ·if we are not awarded patents or if issued patents expire or are declared invalid or not infringed, there may be no protections against competitors making generic equivalents; ·enforcement of patents is complex, uncertain and expensive, and our patents may be found invalid or enforceable; ·our patents could irretrievably lapse due to failure to pay fees or otherwise comply with regulations, or could be subject to compulsory licensing; and ·if we encounter delays in our development or clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market our products under patent protection would be reduced. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any of our pending applications, and we cannot be certain that any of our issued patents, whether issued pursuant to our pending applications or licensed from third parties, will give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, because publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make our inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. If any of our composition of matter patents, or pending applications, was subject to a successful challenge or failed to issue, our business and competitive advantage could be significantly affected. Our current patents will expire or they may otherwise cease to provide meaningful competitive advantage, and we may be unable to adequately develop new technologies and obtain future patent protection to preserve our competitive advantage or avoid adverse effects on our business. The composition of matter patents pertaining to aramchol will expire on March 25, 2019 worldwide outside of Israel and on April 8, 2018 in Israel. We do not expect that we will be able to submit an NDA seeking approval of aramchol prior to the composition of matter patents’ expiration date. However, because aramchol may be a new chemical entity, or NCE, following approval of an NDA, if we are the first applicant to obtain NDA approval, we may be entitled to five years of data and market exclusivity in the United States with respect to such NCE. Analogous data and market exclusivity provisions, of varying duration, may be available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions. The Company also has rights under its pharmaceutical use issued patents with respect to aramchol, which provide patent exclusivity within the Company’s field of activity until the last of such patents expires in 2030. While the Company believes that it may be able to protect its exclusivity in its field of activity through such use patent portfolio and such period of exclusivity, the lack of composition of matter patent protection may diminish the Company’s ability to maintain a proprietary position for its intended uses of aramchol. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain that it will be the first applicant to obtain an FDA approval for any indication of aramchol and it cannot be certain that it will be entitled to NCE exclusivity. Such diminution of aramchol’s proprietary position could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Others may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we have licensed, our rights depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. In addition to patents and patent applications, we depend upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to any other parties. We also require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. These agreements may not, however, provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. 29 Our potential development of aramchol salts may not result in improved bioavailability compared to the existing form of aramchol. Furthermore, although we have submitted patent applications for our aramchol salts in development, there is no assurance that we will receive any patents for them, and even if we receive one or more patents for our aramchol salts in development, they may be of little or no commercial value. As part of our ongoing pre-formulation studies, we have confirmed that several aramchol salts have improved solubility and intestinal permeability as compared to the existing form of aramchol. We have recently submitted new patent applications to protect such salts. In addition, we intend to plan and conduct further formulation development in order to test the possibility of using aramchol salts in future clinical studies. If we decide to develop the formulations of aramchol salts due to the improvement in solubility and bioavailability and longer patent protection, we may conduct an appropriate bioequivalence study, or studies of the biological equivalence of two proprietary preparations of a drug, prior to administering an aramchol salt formulation to patients in our clinical studies. If we commence animal PK studies and formulation development in order to test the bioavailability of the aramchol salt compounds, the results might not support the claims sought by us. Success in our earlier pre-formulation studies does not ensure that later studies will be successful, and the results of later studies may not replicate the results of our prior pre-formation studies. Furthermore, either or both of the animal PK and formulation development studies may fail to demonstrate that the aramchol salts result in an improvement in solubility and bioavailability. Any such failure may cause us to abandon the aramchol salt compounds and may delay development of other product candidates. If the animal PK studies do not support our claims, the completion of development of such potential product candidates may be significantly delayed or abandoned, which will significantly impair our ability to generate revenues and will materially adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, will issue any patents based on the patent applications that we submitted to protect our aramchol salts, nor, should the USPTO issue any patents to us with respect to the aramchol salts, that we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, if the USPTO issues us one or more patents for the aramchol salts, there can be no assurance that the issued patents will be of any commercial value, or that private parties or competitors will not successfully challenge these patents or circumvent these patents in the United States or abroad. In the absence of adequate patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who develop comparable technology or products. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. This risk is exacerbated for us because we expect aramchol will be manufactured and used in a number of foreign countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. This risk is exacerbated for us because we expect aramchol will be manufactured and used in a number of foreign countries. The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, especially those relating to life sciences. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our other intellectual property rights. For example, several foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, some countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Although most jurisdictions in which the Company has applied for, intends to apply for, or has been issued patents have patent protection laws similar to those of the United States, some of them do not. For example, the Company expects to do business in South America, Eurasia, China and Indochina in the future and the countries in these regions may not provide the same or similar protection as that provided in the United States. Additionally, due to uncertainty in patent protection law, the Company has not filed applications in many countries where significant markets exist, including South American countries, Eurasian countries, African countries and Taiwan. 30 Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of intellectual property. We may be unable to protect the intellectual property rights of the third parties from whom we may license certain of our intellectual property or with whom we have entered into other strategic relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our intellectual property rights may be licensed from third parties, including universities and/or strategic partners. Such third parties may determine not to or fail to protect the intellectual property rights that we license from them and we may be unable to defend such intellectual property rights on our own or we may have to undertake costly litigation to defend the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have proprietary rights to any of the intellectual property that we license from such third parties or otherwise have the right to use through similar strategic relationships. Any loss or limitations on use with respect to such intellectual property licensed from third parties or otherwise obtained from third parties with whom we have entered into strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may prevent or delay our product development efforts and stop us from commercializing, or increase the costs of commercializing, our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, there could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe. There also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. For example, pending applications may exist that provide support or can be amended to provide support for a claim that results in an issued patent that our product infringes. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. If a court held that any third-party patents are valid, enforceable and cover our products or their use, the holders of any of these patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize our product candidates or products unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until the patents expire. In addition to litigation proceedings which may be filed against us, we may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements or make other arrangements at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could result in delays in the introduction of our products or lead to prohibition of the manufacture or sale of products by us. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure and unauthorized use of trade secrets and other proprietary information by third parties. Our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection for our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, our products and their uses is important to our commercial success. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, licenses, assignment of inventions agreements and other restrictions on disclosure and use to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our product candidates or products or cause additional material adverse effects upon our competitive business position. 31 We cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or other violation of our confidential information and other intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries in which laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States and other developed economies. Moreover, if we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology, this could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, business and results of operations. Under applicable U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In addition, employees may be entitled to seek compensation for their inventions irrespective of their agreements with us, which in turn could impact our future profitability. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees and certain key consultants, or our employment and consulting agreements contain non-competition provisions. These agreements, to the extent they are in place and in effect, prohibit our employees and certain key consultants, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period of time. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefitting from the expertise our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or the protection of its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that such interests will be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants and our ability to remain competitive may be diminished. In addition, Chapter 8 to the Israeli Patents Law, 5727-1967, or the Patents Law, deals with inventions made in the course of an employee’s service and during his or her term of employment, whether or not the invention is patentable, or service inventions. Section 134 of the Patents Law provides that if there is no agreement that explicitly determines whether the employee is entitled to compensation for the service inventions and the extent and terms of such compensation, such determination will be made by the Compensation and Rewards Committee, a statutory committee of the Israeli Patents Office. Although our employees have agreed to assign to us service invention rights, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. Recent decisions by the Compensation and Rewards Committee and Israeli courts have created some uncertainty in this area, as it was held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. Any lawsuits relating to infringement of intellectual property rights necessary to defend ourselves or enforce our rights will be costly and time consuming. We may be required to initiate litigation to enforce our rights or defend our activities in response to alleged infringement of a third-party. In addition, we may be sued by others who hold intellectual property rights and who claim that their rights are infringed by aramchol or any of our future products or product candidates. These lawsuits can be very time consuming and costly. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. A third-party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as research, development and the sale of any future products. Such lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that such court will decide that we are infringing the third-party’s patents and will order us to stop the activities claimed by the patents, redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement or obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for infringement. 32 Moreover, there is no guarantee that any prevailing patent owner would offer us a license so that we could continue to engage in activities claimed by the patent, or that such a license, if made available to us, could be acquired on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, third parties may, in the future, assert other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our product candidates, technologies or other matters. In addition, our patents and patent applications could face other challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings and re-examination proceedings. Any of these challenges, if successful, could result in the invalidation of, or in a narrowing of the scope of, any of our patents and patent applications subject to challenge. Any of these challenges, regardless of their success, would likely be time consuming and expensive to defend and resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. Changes in patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products. As is the case with other pharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involve both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing pharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In particular, the United States has recently enacted, and is currently implementing, wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The United States Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, and could do so again in the future, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by applicable courts and legislatures in the countries in which we may pursue patent protection, including those of the U.S. Congress, the federal courts and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents and the interpretations of such laws could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, documentary, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile and you may sustain a complete loss of your investment. Since our initial public offering, the trading price of our ordinary shares has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition, the trading volume is and has been volatile and sometimes relatively illiquid. The following factors, some of which are beyond our control, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares: ·inability to obtain the approvals necessary to commence further clinical trials; ·delays in existing clinical trials due to an inability to enroll patients at the expected pace, among other factors; ·unsatisfactory or inconclusive results of clinical trials; 33 ·announcements of regulatory approval or the failure to obtain it, or specific label indications or patient populations for its use, or changes or delays in the regulatory review process; ·announcements of therapeutic innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ·adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our clinical trials, manufacturing supply chain or sales and marketing activities; ·changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to aramchol; ·any adverse changes to our relationship with manufacturers or suppliers; ·any product liability actions or intellectual property infringement actions in which we may become involved; ·announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical industry in general; ·achievement of expected product sales and profitability or our failure to meet expectations; ·our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; ·any major changes in our board of directors, or our Board, management or other key personnel; ·legislation in the United States, Europe and other foreign countries relating to the sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals; ·announcements by us of significant strategic partnerships, out-licensing, in-licensing, joint ventures, acquisitions or capital commitments; ·expiration or terminations of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; ·public concern as to the safety of drugs we, our licensees or others develop; ·success of research and development projects; ·variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; ·changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our ordinary shares are covered by analysts; ·developments by our licensees, if any; and ·future issuances of ordinary shares or other securities. These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses by our investors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of small companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Further, a systemic decline in the financial markets and related factors beyond our control may cause our share price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. Price volatility of our ordinary shares might be worse if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is low. Following periods of market volatility, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and attention of management from our business, even if we are successful. Future sales of our ordinary shares could also reduce the market price of such stock. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. 34 Moreover, the liquidity of our ordinary shares is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but by delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us, if any. These factors may result in lower prices for our ordinary shares than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our ordinary shares. In addition, without a large float, our ordinary shares are less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our ordinary shares are more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate its investment in our ordinary shares. Trading of a relatively small volume of our ordinary shares may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our ordinary shares will trade in the future. Our principal shareholders, President and Chief Executive Officer and directors currently own approximately 39.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis. They will therefore be able to exert significant control over matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, directors and shareholders that own more than 5% of our outstanding ordinary shares own approximately 39.7% of our ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis. As a result, these shareholders, if they acted together, could significantly influence or even unilaterally approve matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our ordinary shares because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market by our existing shareholders could cause our share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering and in accordance with the terms of the Tax Pre-Ruling, the holders of substantially all of our then-outstanding ordinary shares and options agreed, not to sell or dispose of our ordinary shares for a period of two years following the consummation of the Reorganization, subject to certain exceptions. Substantially all of our outstanding shares will become eligible for unrestricted sale upon expiration of such lockup period. In addition, shares issued or issuable upon exercise of options and warrants vested as of the expiration of the lock-up period will be eligible for sale at that time. Sales of shares by these shareholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. Raising additional capital would cause dilution to our existing shareholders, and may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, at-the-market issuances, debt financings, collaborations and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a shareholder. Debt financing, if available, would result in increased fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 35 Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences due to our classification as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based upon our review of our financial data, we have determined that we are currently a PFIC, and we likely will continue to be a PFIC, at least until we develop a source of significant operating revenues. If we were to be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder, as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation— Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations,” owns ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder could face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For example, such U.S. Holder could be liable to additional taxes and interest charges upon certain distributions by us and any gain recognized on a sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares, whether or not we continue to be characterized as a PFIC. One way in which certain of the adverse consequences of PFIC status can be mitigated is for a U.S. Holder to make an election to treat us as a qualified electing fund, or QEF. A shareholder making the QEF election is required for each taxable year to include in income a pro rata share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the QEF, subject to a separate election to defer payment of taxes, which deferral is subject to an interest charge. An election to treat us as a QEF will not be available if we do not provide the information necessary to make such an election. It is not expected that a U.S. Holder will be able to make a QEF election because we do not intend to provide U.S. Holders with the information necessary to make a QEF election. See also “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation— Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 as they apply to a foreign private issuer and emerging growth company, or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. We became subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when our ordinary shares were listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Section 404 requires companies subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures and our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting. Pursuant to the JOBS Act, we will be classified as an “emerging growth company.” Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are exempt from certain reporting requirements, including the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Under this exemption, our auditor will not be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting during a five year transition period. We will need to prepare for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is complicated and time-consuming. Furthermore, as our business continues to grow both domestically and internationally, our internal controls will become more complex and will require significantly more resources and attention to ensure our internal controls remain effective overall. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, which may not be remedied in a timely manner to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and the market price of our securities may suffer. Nevertheless, as a foreign private issuer that is an emerging growth company, we are not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012” for more detail regarding our status as an emerging growth company. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations or publish negative reports regarding our business or our shares, our share price and trading volume could be negatively impacted. The trading market for our ordinary shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts and we cannot provide any assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our shares, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could negatively impact our share price or trading volume. 36 Because we do not intend to declare cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future, shareholders must rely on appreciation of the value of our ordinary shares for any return on their investment. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, as amended, or the Companies Law, imposes certain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy” for additional information. The requirements associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, on which our ordinary shares are traded, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires that we file periodic reports with respect to our business and financial condition and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In addition, subsequent rules implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Capital Market may also impose various additional requirements on public companies. As a result, we incurred and will continue to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a privately-held company, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. Further, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our development plans. We have made and will continue to make changes to our corporate governance standards, compensation policy, disclosure controls and financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations and applicable law. The measures we take, however, may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company, which could subject us to delisting of our ordinary shares, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. The JOBS Act will allow us to postpone the date by which we must comply with some of the laws and regulations intended to protect investors and to reduce the amount of information we provide in our reports filed with the SEC, which could undermine investor confidence in our company and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. For so long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including: ·the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; ·the “say on pay” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve compensation of certain executive officers, and the Dodd-Frank Act’s “say on golden parachute” provisions requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve golden parachute arrangements for certain executive officers in connection with mergers and certain other business combinations and some of the disclosure requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to compensation of our President and Chief Executive Officer; ·any rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report on the financial statements; and ·our ability to furnish two rather than three years of income statements and statements of cash flows in various required filings. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares, and our share price may become more volatile and decline. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are permitted to and currently do follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and Nasdaq Capital Market requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are permitted to, and currently do, follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the Listing Rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market for domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we currently follow home country practice in Israel with regard to, among other things, director nomination procedures, quorum requirements and approval of compensation of officers. In addition, we may follow our home country law instead of the Listing Rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or greater interest in the company, and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the Listing Rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” 37 In addition, as a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements and certain individual executive compensation information, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Furthermore, as a “foreign private issuer,” we are also not subject to the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) promulgated under the Exchange Act. These exemptions and leniencies reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you are entitled as an investor. Because our ordinary shares may be a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for investors to sell their ordinary shares, and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our ordinary shares may be a “penny stock” if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange or we have not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their ordinary shares. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their ordinary shares publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our ordinary shares are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As such, we must meet the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing requirements and other Nasdaq rules, or we may risk delisting. Delisting could negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares, which could make it more difficult for us to sell securities in a financing and for you to sell your ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As such, we are required to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and other Nasdaq rules, including those regarding director independence and independent committee requirements, minimum stockholders’ equity, minimum share price and certain other corporate governance requirements. In particular, we are required to maintain a minimum bid price for our listed ordinary shares of $1.00 per share. If we do not meet these continued listing requirements, our ordinary shares could be delisted. Delisting of our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market would cause us to pursue eligibility for trading on other markets or exchanges, or on the pink sheets. In such case, our shareholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, our ordinary shares would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. There can be no assurance that our ordinary shares, if delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future, would be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the Over-The-Counter Markets or the pink sheets. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even the issuance of a notice of potential delisting, would also result in negative publicity, make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares, reduce security analysts’ coverage of us and diminish investor, supplier and employee confidence. In addition, as a consequence of any such delisting, our share price could be negatively affected and our shareholders would likely find it more difficult to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of, our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Israeli Law and Our Operations in Israel Our headquarters and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our executive offices are located in Tel-Aviv, Israel. In addition, the majority of our officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. During the winter of 2008-2009, the autumn of 2012 and the summer of 2014, Israel was engaged in armed conflicts with Hamas, a militia group and political party operating in the Gaza Strip. The last conflict, as well as the previous round of escalation, involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, including areas in which our employees, service providers and some of our consultants are located. During the summer of 2006, Israel was also engaged in armed conflicts with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party, which also involved missile strikes against civilian targets in the northern part of Israel. The continuation of such strikes may negatively affect business conditions in Israel. 38 Since February 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control, and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in such agreements. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government is currently committed to covering the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained, or if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions generally and could harm our results of operations. Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjects of economic boycotts. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. Our operations may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of Israeli citizens to perform military service. Many Israeli citizens are obligated to perform several days, and in some cases more, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for reservists who are officers or who have certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by such call- ups, which may include the call-up of our employees or the employees of our Israeli business partners. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar, Euro and the New Israeli Shekel currencies may negatively affect our earnings. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. We incur expenses in U.S. dollars, Euros and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risks that the Euro and the NIS may appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, or, if either the Euro and the NIS devalue relative to the U.S. dollar, that the inflation rate in the EU and in Israel may exceed such rate of devaluation of the Euro and the NIS, or that the timing of such devaluation may lag behind inflation in the EU and in Israel. In any such event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in the EU and in Israel would increase and our U.S. dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected. The average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1.00 = Euro 0.83 and $1.00 = NIS 3.89. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in the EU and in Israel or the rate of devaluation, if any, of either the Euro or the NIS against the U.S. dollar. As of the date hereof, neither the inflation rate in the EU nor in Israel has exceeded the rate of devaluation of the Euro or the NIS, respectively, during the calendar years 2012, 2013 or 2014. The Tax Pre-Ruling imposes restrictions and limitations that may adversely affect our ability to raise funds by selling our ordinary shares and our ability to commercialize our product candidate. The Tax Pre-Ruling we obtained from the Israeli Tax Authority in connection with the Reorganization includes certain restrictions and limitations. Under the Tax Pre-Ruling, during the two year period following the consummation of the Reorganization, which ends in February 2016, or the Restriction Period, we may not sell or otherwise dispose of our intellectual property, other than in the ordinary course of business, which may prevent us from completing collaboration arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies necessary for the commercialization of our product candidate. Pursuant to the Tax Pre-Ruling, at any time following our initial public offering and until the end of the Restriction Period, we may not issue more than 49% of our share capital in a public or private offering, including the shares sold in our initial public offering. Such restrictions and limitations may limit our ability to raise funds by selling and issuing our ordinary shares, which in turn could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidate or could force us to cease our operations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Pre-Ruling, our shareholders and optionholders as of immediately after the consummation of the Reorganization may not sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of more than 10% of their respective shares and options, subject to a certain exemptions. Substantially all of such shareholders and option holders agreed, in accordance with the terms of the Tax Pre-Ruling, not to sell or dispose of our ordinary shares for a period of two years following the consummation of the Reorganization. 39 If during the Restriction Period, we or our shareholders or optionholders who held rights immediately after the consummation of the Reorganization, or the Rights Holders, violate one or more of the restrictions described under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain Israeli Tax Considerations—Pre-Ruling Regarding a Reorganization of Our Corporate Structure” below, or a Violation, the transfer of shares and assets in connection with the Reorganization will become subject to taxation based on the greater of the transferred assets’ fair market value on the day of such Violation or taxes that, but for the Tax Pre-Ruling, would be payable in connection with the transfer of such assets and shares plus Israeli consumer price index linkage differentials and interest from the day of the actual transfer of such assets and shares until the day of payment of such taxes, unless the Israeli Tax Authority is satisfied that such Violation was a result of special circumstances beyond our control. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association, or Articles, may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the Company’s outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Certain Israeli Tax Considerations” for additional information. Our Articles also contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board. These provisions will include the following: ·no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates; and ·the exclusive right of our Board to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board. Provisions of the Companies Law and anti-takeover provisions in our Articles could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current Board and could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Under the Companies Law, as amended, a merger is generally required to be approved by the shareholders and board of directors of each of the merging companies. Unless an Israeli court determines differently, a merger will not be approved if it is objected to by shareholders holding a majority of the voting rights participating and voting at the meeting, after excluding the shares held by the other party to the merger, by any person who holds 25% or more of the other party to the merger or by anyone on their behalf, including by the relatives of or corporations controlled by these persons. In addition, upon the request of a creditor of either party to the proposed merger, an Israeli court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. Further, a merger generally may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer to the extent that as a result of such acquisition the acquirer will hold 25% or more of the voting rights in the company if there is no other holder of 25% or more of the company’s voting rights, or hold 45% or more of the voting rights in the company if there is no other holder of 45% or more of the company’s voting rights. In addition, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, including stock-for-stock swaps between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax law. Israeli tax law may, for instance, subject a shareholder who exchanges ordinary shares for shares in a non-Israeli corporation to immediate taxation. Certain provisions of our Articles may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of the Company deemed undesirable by the Board. Those provisions include: ·limiting the ability of our shareholders to convene general meetings of the Company; ·controlling procedures for the conduct of shareholder and our Board meetings, including quorum and voting requirements; and ·the election and removal of directors. 40 Moreover, the classification of our Board into three classes with terms of approximately three years each, which was approved by shareholders of the Company, the requirement of affirmative vote of at least 75% of the voting rights represented personally or by proxy and voting thereon at a general meeting in order to amend or replace our Articles and the requirement under the Companies Law to have at least two external directors who cannot readily be removed from office, together with the other provisions of the Articles and Israeli law, could deter or delay potential future merger, acquisition, tender or takeover offers, proxy contests or changes in control or management of the Company, some of which could be deemed by certain shareholders to be in their best interests and which could affect the price some investors are willing to pay for our ordinary shares. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a United States court against us, our officers, directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report in Israel or the United States, to assert United States securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers, directors and these experts. We were and continue to be organized in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors reside outside of the United States, and all of our assets and most of the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not necessarily be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to initiate an action with respect to United States securities laws in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of United States securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not United States law is applicable to the claim. If United States law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable United States law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a United States or foreign court. Your rights, liabilities and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some material respects from those under U.S. law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by the Articles and Israeli law. These rights, liabilities and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights, liabilities and responsibilities of shareholders in a U.S. corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or a shareholder who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. See Item 10.—B Memorandum and Articles of Association—Shareholder Duties” for additional information. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. Any of the risk factors referred to above could significantly and negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, which may reduce our ability to pay dividends and lower the trading price of our ordinary shares. The risks referred to above are not the only ones that may exist. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 