D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to us and our business and the industry in which we operate. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common shares. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, and lower the trading price of our common shares. You may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Company We are a recently formed company with a limited history of operations on which investors may assess our performance. We are a recently formed company and have a limited performance record, operating history and historical financial statements upon which you can evaluate our operations or our ability to implement and achieve our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy. In July 2013, we acquired the four vessels in our Initial Fleet, and we did not engage in any business or other activities prior to such acquisitions. Our operating fleet consists of five LPG carriers. Any limitation in the availability or operation of these vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating fleet consists of five LPG carriers. Until the delivery of one or more of the additional vessels for which we have contracted, with scheduled deliveries between September 2014 and January 2016, or until we identify and acquire additional vessels, we will depend upon these five vessels for all of our revenue. If any of our vessels are unable to generate revenues as a result of off‑hire time, early termination of the applicable time charter or otherwise, our business, results of operations financial condition and ability to pay dividends on our common shares could be materially adversely affected. 3 Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in the maritime LPG transportation business would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from the vessels in our operating fleet, all of which operate in the maritime LPG transportation business, and focus on VLGCs in particular. Unlike some other shipping companies, which have various vessels that can carry containers, dry bulk, crude oil and oil products, we expect to depend exclusively on the transport of LPG. Our lack of a diversified business model could materially adversely affect us if the maritime LPG transportation sector fails to develop in line with our expectations. Our lack of diversification could make us vulnerable to adverse developments in the international LPG shipping industry which would have a significantly greater impact on our business, financial condition and operating results than it would if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue and cash flow from one charterer and the loss of that charterer could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue and cash flow from one charterer, Statoil. For the period ended March 31, 2014, Statoil accounted for 51% of our total revenue. The vessels we have contracted under time charters have fixed terms, but may be terminated early due to certain events, such as a charterer's failure to make charter payments to us because of financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a charter with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the LPG shipping industry, prevailing prices for LPG and the overall financial condition of the counterparty. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we may be unable to realize revenue under that charter and could sustain losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If any of our charters are terminated, we may be unable to re‑deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as our current charters, or at all. If we are unable to re‑deploy a vessel for which the charter has been terminated, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, and we may be required to pay ongoing expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. Any of these factors may decrease our revenue and cash flows. Further, the loss of any of our charterers, charters or vessels, or a decline in charter hire rates under any of our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We may not be able to successfully secure employment for our vessels, including our 18 newbuildings for which we have not yet arranged employment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Two of the vessels in our operating fleet are on time charters, one of which expires in the fourth calendar quarter of 2014 for which we have not arranged re‑employment, and three of our vessels are operating in the spot market. In addition, we have not yet arranged employment for 18 newbuildings, which we expect to be delivered between the third calendar quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2016. As a result, a large number of our vessels may not have secured employment upon expiration of their current charters or delivery to us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding employment for such vessels, on time charters, in the spot market, or otherwise, immediately upon their deliveries to us or whether such employment will be at profitable rates, which could affect the availability of financing as well as our general financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Our growth in the LPG shipping market depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. The process of obtaining new charter agreements is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bidding process that often extends for several months. Contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors, including: • the operator's industry relationships, experience and reputation for customer service, quality operations and safety; • the quality, experience and technical capability of the crew; • the experience of the crew with the operator and type of vessel; • the operator's relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • the operator's construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on‑time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; 4 • the operator's willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • the competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. Our vessels will operate in a highly competitive market and we expect substantial competition for providing transportation services from a number of companies (both LPG vessel owners and operators). We anticipate that an increasing number of maritime transport companies, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience, will enter the LPG shipping market. Our existing and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of LPG depends on the price, location, size, age, condition and acceptability of the vessel to the charterer. Further, competitors with greater resources may have larger fleets, or could operate larger fleets through consolidations, acquisitions, newbuildings or pooling of their vessels with other companies, and, therefore, may be able to offer a more competitive service than us, including better charter rates. We expect competition from a number of experienced companies providing contracts for gas transportation services to potential LPG customers, including state‑sponsored entities and major energy companies affiliated with the projects requiring shipping services. As a result, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We have entered into, and expect to enter into in the future, various contracts, including charter agreements, contracts of affreightment, shipbuilding contracts and credit facilities. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability and willingness of our counterparties to perform their obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and LPG industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. For example, the combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in world trade, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve‑based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in the ability of our charterers to make charter payments to us. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is then under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to fluctuations in spot market charter rates, which may adversely affect our earnings. As of the date of this annual report, three of our five operating vessels operate in the spot market, exposing us to fluctuations in spot market charter rates. In addition, we may employ additional vessels in the spot market in the future as our current time charters expire and as we take delivery of our newbuilding vessels under construction. The spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon LPG supply and demand. In addition, VLGC spot market rates are highly seasonal, with strength in the second and third calendar quarters, as suppliers build inventory for the high consumption northern hemisphere winter. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive and highly volatile spot charter market depends on, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters, which depends greatly on vessel supply and demand, and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. When the current charters for our fleet expire or are terminated, it may not be possible to re‑charter these vessels at similar rates, or at all, or to secure charters for our contracted LPG carrier newbuildings at similarly profitable rates, or at all. As a result, we may have to accept lower rates or experience off hire time for our vessels, which would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our VLGC Newbuilding Program is subject to risks, including our ability to obtain financing for the acquisition of the vessels we have contracted to acquire, which could cause delays, cost overruns or cancellations, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have entered into contracts for the construction of 19 newbuilding vessels at Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. ("HHI" or "Hyundai") and Daewoo Shipping and Marine Engineering Ltd. ("Daewoo"), including one that has been delivered (our "VLGC Newbuilding Program"), for which installment payments made by us or through acquisitions as of July 24, 2014 total $385.4 million and our remaining contractual commitments total approximately $1.0 billion. Although we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining financing at all or on satisfactory terms, we plan to finance the estimated remaining project costs for the vessels in our VLGC Newbuilding Program with cash on hand, the net proceeds of our initial public offering and borrowings in an estimated amount of approximately $750 million under new credit facilities or debt/equity offerings we will seek to arrange. Our entry into new credit facilities and access to the public and private debt and equity markets are subject to significant conditions, including without limitation, the negotiation and execution of definitive documentation, as well as credit and debt market conditions, and we may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain financing or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. If financing is not available when needed, including potentially through debt or equity financings, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our purchase price payment obligations and complete the acquisition of these vessels. Our failure to obtain the funds for these capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our cash flows. 5 The delivery of any of the newbuildings we have ordered or may order or of any vessels we agree to acquire in the future could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under any future charters we enter into for the vessels. In addition, under some of the charters we may enter into for these newbuildings, if our delivery of a vessel to the customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, significantly in excess of the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter, resulting in loss of revenues. The delivery of any newbuilding with substantial defects could have similar consequences. Newbuilding construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction, failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard, unanticipated actual or purported change orders, inability to obtain required permits or approvals, unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery, design or engineering changes and work stoppages and other labor disputes, hostilities or political economic disturbances in the countries where the vessels are being built, including any escalation of recent tensions with North Korea, adverse weather conditions or any other events of force majeure. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyards are unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure by the shipyard to construct or deliver the ships or any significant delays could increase our expenses, diminish our net income and may result in a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the refund guarantors under the newbuilding contracts, which are banks, financial institutions and other credit agencies, may also be affected by financial market conditions in the same manner as our lenders and, as a result, may be unable or unwilling to meet their obligations under their refund guarantees. If the shipbuilders or refund guarantors are unable or unwilling to meet their obligations to the sellers of the vessels, we may lose the deposits we have paid on these newbuildings or this may impact our acquisition of vessels and, in either case, may materially and adversely affect our operations and our obligations under our credit facilities. We also cannot assure you that our newbuildings, when delivered, will perform in accordance with our expectations. Our newbuildings are based on innovative new ECO designs, which have only limited operational history, thus exposing us to potential uncertainties. The failure of our newbuildings to perform in accordance with expectations may result in a material adverse effect on our business. The failure to consummate or integrate acquisitions in a timely and cost‑effective manner could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. Any acquisition could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common shares. Our future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets and the risk of diverting management's attention from existing operations or other priorities. We may also be subject to additional costs related to compliance with various international laws in connection with such acquisitions. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost‑effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders could be adversely affected. 6 Our loan agreement contains restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our existing bank loan agreement contains, and any future financing arrangements are expected to contain, customary covenants and event of default clauses, including cross‑default provisions and restrictive covenants and performance requirements, which may affect operational and financial flexibility. Such restrictions could affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell assets, or engage in mergers or acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. There can be no assurance that such restrictions will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Our loan agreement with the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is secured by each of the three VLGC vessels of our Initial Fleet, requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, satisfy financial covenants and contains cross‑default clauses. These financial ratios and covenants include requirements that we: • maintain a ratio of cash flow from operations before interest expense to cash debt service costs of not less than 0.8:1 through December 31, 2014; and 1:1 at all times thereafter; • maintain minimum shareholders' equity, as adjusted for any reduction in the vessel fair market value, of not less than $85 million; • maintain a minimum cash balance of $10 million at the end of each quarter and minimum cash balances of $1.5 million per mortgaged vessel in a pledged account with the lender at all times; • ensure that our debt to adjusted equity ratio does not at any time exceed 150%; • maintain a ratio of the aggregate market value of the vessels securing the loan to the principal amount outstanding under such loan, plus 50% of the related swap exposure up to September 30, 2014 and 100% of such exposure thereafter, at all times in excess of 125%; and • not pay dividends in excess of free cash flow if an event of default is occurring. As of March 31, 2014, we are in compliance with our loan covenants. The loan agreement also requires that Dorian Holdings maintain its ownership of our common shares at a minimum level currently set at 4.9% as of July 23, 2014, subject to downward adjustment for any future equity issuances by us, and provides that the ownership of more than one‑third of our common shares by any shareholder other than Dorian Holdings is an event of default, and requires the lender's approval prior to chartering for a period of greater than one year any of the vessels securing the loan, subject to certain conditions. Under the loan agreement, our subsidiaries which own the vessels securing the loan may make expenditures to fund our administration and operation but may not pay dividends to us. As a result of the restrictions in our loan agreement, or similar restrictions in our future financing arrangements, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain their permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that we believe are in our best interest which may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. A failure by us to meet our payment and other obligations, including our financial covenants and security coverage requirement, could lead to defaults under our secured loan agreements. In addition, a default under one of our credit facilities could result in the cross‑acceleration of our other indebtedness. Our lenders could then accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars and the majority of our expenses are also in U.S. dollars. However, a small portion of our overall expenses is incurred in other currencies, particularly the Euro, British Pound Sterling, the Japanese Yen, Norwegian Krone and the Singapore Dollar. This could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. 7 The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our existing and future loan agreements we may enter into, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing loan agreement, which is secured by liens on each of the VLGC vessels in our Initial Fleet, contains various financial covenants, including requirements that relate to our financial condition, operating performance and liquidity. For example, we are required to maintain a minimum debt to adjusted equity ratio that is based, in part, upon the market value of the vessels securing the applicable loan, as well as a minimum ratio of the market value of vessels securing a loan to the principal amount outstanding under such loan. The market value of LPG carriers, is sensitive to, among other things, changes in the LPG carrier charter markets, with vessel values deteriorating in times when LPG carrier charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. While the market values of our vessels have increased since the economic slowdown, they still remain below the historic high levels prior to the economic slowdown. LPG vessel values remain subject to significant fluctuation. A decline in the fair market values of our vessels could result in our not being in compliance with these loan covenants. Furthermore, if the value of our vessels deteriorates significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. A failure to comply with our covenants and/or obtain covenant waivers or modifications could result in our lender requiring us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet or accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and could lose our vessels if our lender forecloses their liens. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreement. A significant increase in our debt levels may adversely affect our profitability and our cash flows. As of March 31, 2014 we had outstanding indebtedness of $128.7 million and we expect to incur substantial further secured indebtedness, in an estimated amount of approximately $750 million, as we finance the remaining purchase price of our 18 newbuilding vessels. This increase in the level of indebtedness as well as any further increase necessary to further expand our fleet, and the need to service such indebtedness, may impact our profitability and cash available for growth of our fleet, working capital and dividends. Additionally, any increase in the present interest rate levels may increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and decrease our profits. We have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other purposes. The need to service our debt may limit our funds available for other purposes, including any distributions of cash to our shareholders, and our inability to service our debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. Moreover, carrying secured indebtedness exposes us to increased risks if the demand for seaborne LPG transportation decreases and charter rates and vessel values are adversely affected. We are a holding company, and depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all directly and indirectly wholly‑owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate profits available for distribution to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, the terms of our financing arrangements or by the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of dividends. Our subsidiaries that own the VLGCs vessels in our Initial Fleet and who are party to our existing secured term loan facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland are prohibited from paying dividends to us without the consent of the lender. However, the loan facility permits the borrowers to make expenditures to fund our administration and operation. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our fleet and may incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. We currently have 18 newbuildings on order at HHI and Daewoo. As and when market conditions permit, we intend to continue to prudently grow our fleet over the long term, in addition to the acquisition of the 18 newbuildings currently scheduled for delivery between September 2014 and January 2016 and a VLGC that was delivered in July 2014. The expansion of our fleet could impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and may necessitate that we increase the number of personnel. In the future, we may not be able to identify suitable vessels, acquire vessels on advantageous terms or obtain financing for such acquisitions. Any future growth will depend on: 8 • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and completing acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired LPG carriers or businesses successfully with our existing operations; • hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • expanding our customer base; and • obtaining required financing. Growing a business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired vessels into existing infrastructures. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, including the management and staff of our commercial and technical managers that we brought in‑house at the end of the second calendar quarter of 2014, and may necessitate that we increase the number of personnel. We may not be successful in executing our growth initiatives and we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. As our fleet grows in size, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and recruit additional staff and crew; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are in the process of significantly expanding our fleet, and as a consequence of this, we will have to invest considerable sums in upgrading our operating and financial systems. In addition, we will have to recruit well‑qualified seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We may not be able to hire suitable employees to the extent we continue to expand our fleet. Our vessels require technically skilled staff with specialized training. If our crewing agents are unable to employ such technically skilled staff, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or we are unable to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our results of operation and our ability to expand our fleet may be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry without incurring substantial expense as a result of rising crew costs, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. The successful development and performance of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled professionals with appropriate experience and expertise. Any loss of the services of any of the senior management or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Obtaining time charters with leading industry participants depends on a number of factors, including the ability to man vessels with suitably experienced, high‑quality masters, officers and crew. In recent years, the limited supply of and increased demand for well‑qualified crew has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our time and spot charters. Increases in crew costs and other vessel operating costs such as insurance, repairs and maintenance, and lubricants may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we cannot retain sufficient numbers of quality on‑board seafaring personnel, our fleet utilization will decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our directors and officers may in the future hold direct or indirect interests in companies that compete with us. Our directors and officers each have a history of involvement in the shipping industry and may, in the future, directly or indirectly, hold investments in companies that compete with us. In that case, they may face conflicts between their own interests and their obligations to us. Our business and operations involve inherent operating risks, and our insurance and indemnities from our customers may not be adequate to cover potential losses from our operations. Our vessels are subject to a variety of operational risks caused by adverse weather conditions, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, or other circumstances or events. We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance for our fleet. While we endeavor to be adequately insured against all known risks related to the operation of our ships, there remains the possibility that a liability may not be adequately covered and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may also not pay particular claims. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. There can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will remain available at economic rates. Furthermore, such insurance coverage will contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions, which are standard in the shipping industry and may increase our costs or lower our revenue if applied in respect of any claim. 9 We may incur substantial costs for the drydocking or replacement of our vessels as they age. The drydocking of our vessels requires significant capital expenditures and loss of revenue while our vessels are off‑hire. Any significant increase in the number of days of off‑hire due to such drydocking or in the costs of any repairs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although we do not anticipate that more than one vessel will be out of service at any given time, we may underestimate the time required to drydock our vessels, or unanticipated problems may arise. In addition, although almost all of our VLGCs are newbuildings or were built within the past seven years, we estimate that our vessels have a useful life of 25 years. As our vessels become older or if we acquire older secondhand vessels, we may have to replace such vessels upon the expiration of their useful lives. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace such older vessels. The inability to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement will not be available for the payment of dividends to shareholders. Following the completion of our initial public offering, Scorpio Tankers, Kensico Capital Management, Dorian Holdings and SeaDor Holdings continued to control a substantial ownership stake in us and their interests could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As of July 23, 2014, Scorpio Tankers, SeaDor Holdings, Kensico Capital Management and Dorian Holdings own approximately 16.4%, 16.3%, 14.0% and 9.9% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. As a result of this substantial ownership interest and their participation on the Board of Directors, they currently have the ability to exert significant influence over certain actions requiring shareholders' approval, including, increasing or decreasing the authorized share capital, the election of directors, declaration of dividends, the appointment of management, and other policy decisions. While transactions with Scorpio Tankers, Dorian Holdings and SeaDor Holdings could benefit us, their interests could at times conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Scorpio Tankers, Dorian Holdings and SeaDor Holdings or their affiliates, which may result in the conclusion of transactions on terms not determined by market forces. Any such conflicts of interest could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common shares. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," ("PFIC") for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" generally includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services generally does not constitute "passive income." United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to an adverse United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. There is a risk that we will be treated as a PFIC for our 2015 taxable year. Whether we are treated as a PFIC for either year will depend, in part, upon whether our newbuilding contracts and the deposits made thereon are treated as assets held for the production of "passive income" and the average value of our assets treated as held for the production of "passive" income during such year. Thereafter, whether we will be treated as a PFIC will depend upon the nature and extent of our operations. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive from our voyage and time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, such income should not constitute passive income, and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of such income, in particular, our vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"), pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept this position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, we cannot assure you that the nature of our operations will not change in the future. 10 For any taxable year in which we are, or were to be treated as, a PFIC, United States shareholders would face adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a shareholder makes an election available under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders"), excess distributions and any gain from the disposition of such shareholder's common shares would be allocated ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the common shares and the amounts allocated to the taxable year of the excess distribution or sale or other disposition and to any year before we became a PFIC would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each other taxable year would be subject to tax at the highest rate in effect for individuals or corporations, as appropriate, for that taxable year, and an interest charge would be imposed with respect to such tax. See "Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on United States source shipping income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a corporation that owns or charters vessels, as we and our subsidiaries do, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4%, or an effective 2%, United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We do not believe that we were able to qualify for exemption under Section 883 for our first fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 and as a consequence, our gross United States source shipping income for our first fiscal year, derived from two vessel voyages transporting cargo from Houston to ports in Brazil is subject to a 4% gross basis tax of $39,266 (without allowance for deductions) . Subsequent to our first fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we anticipate that we will qualify for exemption under Section 883 based on the Publicly‑Traded Test but, as discussed below, this is a factual determination made on an annual basis. Publicly‑Traded Test We and our subsidiaries have taken the position that we qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if certain "non‑qualified" shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common shares for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, there can be no assurances on that we or any of our subsidiaries will qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code. If we or our subsidiaries were not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year based on our failure to satisfy the publicly‑traded test, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for such year to an effective 2% United States federal income tax on the gross shipping income we or our subsidiaries derive during the year that is attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would decrease our earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. We are a "foreign private issuer" under the NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain of the NYSE's corporate governance standards applicable to domestic companies, and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements. We are a "foreign private issuer" under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the securities laws of the United States, "foreign private issuers" are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the NYSE's rules, a "foreign private issuer" is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a "foreign private issuer" to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. For a description of our corporate governance practices, please see "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees – C. Board Practices." Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements. 11 Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB"), inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB did conduct inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. The PCAOB issued its report which can be found on the PCAOB website. Currently however the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until such time as a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board (AAOB) is reached. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. We are exposed to volatility in the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), and we have and we intend to selectively enter into derivative contracts, which can result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. The amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility have been, and we expect borrowings under additional credit facilities we will seek to enter into will generally be, advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR, which has been stable, but was volatile in prior years, which can affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, and which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, in recent years, LIBOR has been at relatively low levels, and may rise in the future as the current low interest rate environment comes to an end. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected at any time that we have not entered into interest rate hedging arrangements to hedge our exposure to the interest rates applicable to our credit facilities and any other financing arrangements we may enter into in the future, including those we enter into to finance a portion of the amounts payable with respect to newbuildings. Moreover, even if we have entered into interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments for purposes of managing our interest rate exposure, our hedging strategies may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses. We have entered into and may selectively in the future enter into derivative contracts to hedge our overall exposure to interest rate risk exposure. Our Predecessor has incurred substantial losses under such contracts. Entering into swaps and derivatives transactions is inherently risky and presents various possibilities for incurring significant expenses. The derivatives strategies that we employ in the future may not be successful or effective, and we could, as a result, incur substantial additional interest costs. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" for a description of our interest rate swap arrangements. If we purchase and operate secondhand vessels, we will be exposed to increased operating costs which could adversely affect our earnings and, as our fleet ages, the risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our ability to obtain profitable charters. We may acquire secondhand vessels in the future, and while we typically inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock which would reduce our fleet utilization. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel‑efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to secondhand vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate those vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 12 Risks Relating to our Industry The cyclical nature of the demand for LPG transportation may lead to significant changes in our chartering and vessel utilization, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial position. Historically, the international LPG carrier market has been cyclical with attendant volatility in profitability, charter rates and vessel values. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of gas carriers has varied widely. Because many factors influencing the supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity are unpredictable, the timing, direction and degree of changes in the international gas carrier market are also not predictable. If charter rates decline, our earnings may decrease, particularly with respect to our vessels deployed in the spot market, but will also apply to our other vessels whose charters will be subject to renewal during 2014, as they may not be extended or renewed on favorable terms when compared to the terms of the expiring charters. In addition, we expect to take delivery of three newbuilding VLGCs in 2014 (including one newbuilding that was delivered in July 2014), fourteen newbuilding VLGCs in 2015 and two newbuilding VLGCs in 2016, for eighteen of which we have not yet arranged employment. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, liquidity, cash flow and financial position. Future growth in the demand for LPG carriers and charter rates will depend on economic growth in the world economy and demand for LPG product transportation that exceeds the capacity of the growing worldwide LPG carrier fleet's ability to match it. We believe that the future growth in demand for LPG carriers and the charter rate levels for LPG carriers will depend primarily upon the supply and demand for LPG, particularly in the economies of China, India, Japan and Southeast Asia, in the U.S. and upon seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world LPG shipping fleet appears likely to increase in the near term. Economic growth may be limited in the near term, and possibly for an extended period, as a result of the current global economic conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The factors affecting the supply and demand for LPG carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for our vessels include: • supply and demand for LPG products; • worldwide production of natural gas; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance LPG products are to be moved by sea; • availability of competing LPG vessels; • availability of alternative transportation means; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; • development and exploitation of alternative fuels and non‑conventional hydrocarbon production; • governmental regulations, including environmental or restrictions on offshore transportation of natural gas; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • accidents, severe weather, natural disasters and other similar incidents relating to the natural gas industry; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; 13 • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • LPG vessel prices; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. A significant decline in demand for the seaborne transport of LPG or a significant increase in the supply of LPG vessel capacity without a corresponding growth in LPG vessel demand could cause a significant decline in prevailing charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and cash flow. If the demand for LPG products and LPG shipping does not grow, or decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our growth depends on growth in the supply and demand for LPG products and LPG shipping, which was adversely affected by the sharp decrease in world trade and the global economy experienced in the latter part of 2008 and in 2009. Although the global economy has recovered somewhat, it remains relatively weak and world and regional demand for LPG products and LPG shipping can be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as: • adverse global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LPG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption; • a reduction in global or general industrial activity specifically in the plastics and chemical industries; • increases in the cost of petroleum and natural gas from which LPG is derived; • decreases in the consumption of LPG or natural gas due to availability of new, alternative energy sources or increases in the price of LPG or natural gas relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of LPG or natural gas less attractive; and • increases in pipelines for LPG, which are currently few in number, linking production areas and industrial and residential areas consuming LPG, or the conversion of existing non‑petroleum gas pipelines to petroleum gas pipelines in those markets. Reduced demand for LPG products and LPG shipping would have an adverse effect on our future growth and would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues, operations and future growth could be adversely affected by a decrease in the supply or demand of LPG or natural gas. In recent years, there has been a strong supply of natural gas and an increase in the construction of plants and projects involving natural gas, of which LPG is a byproduct. Several of these projects, however, have experienced delays in their completion for various reasons and thus the expected increase in the supply of LPG from these projects may be delayed significantly. If the supply of natural gas decreases, we may see a concurrent reduction in the production of LPG and resulting lesser demand and lower charter rates for our vessels, which could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operations and future growth. Additionally, changes in environmental or other legislation establishing additional regulation or restrictions on LPG production and transportation, including the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations, or legislation in the United States placing additional regulation or restrictions on LPG production from shale gas could result in reduced demand for LPG shipping. Various economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. The global economy and the volume of world trade have remained relatively weak since the severe decline in the latter part of 2008 and in 2009. Recovery of the global economy is proceeding at varying speeds across regions and remains subject to downside risks, including fragility of advanced economies and concerns over sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries such as Greece. More specifically, some LPG products we carry are used in cyclical businesses, such as the manufacturing of plastics and in the chemical industry, that were adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and, accordingly, continued weakness and reduction in demand in those industries could adversely affect the LPG carrier industry. In particular, an adverse change in economic conditions affecting China, India, Japan or Southeast Asia generally could have a negative effect on the demand for LPG products, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years China and India have been among the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Moreover, any further deterioration in the economy of the United States or the European Union, including due to the European sovereign debt and banking crisis, may further adversely affect economic growth in Asia. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, could likely be materially and adversely affected by adverse economic conditions in any of these countries or regions. 14 The state of global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing or refinance our future credit facilities on acceptable terms, which may hinder or prevent us from operating or expanding our business. Global economic conditions and financial markets have been severely disrupted and volatile in recent years. Credit markets and the debt and equity capital markets were exceedingly distressed in 2008 and 2009, and have been volatile since that time. The current sovereign debt crisis in countries such as Greece, for example, and concerns over debt levels of certain other European Union member states and in other countries around the world, as well as concerns about international banks, have led to increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. These issues, along with the re‑pricing of credit risk and the difficulties experienced by financial institutions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. As a result of the disruptions in the credit markets and higher capital requirements, many lenders have increased margins on lending rates, enacted tighter lending standards, required more restrictive terms (including higher collateral ratios for advances, shorter maturities and smaller loan amounts), or refused to refinance existing debt on terms similar to our current debt or at all. Furthermore, certain banks that have historically been significant lenders to the shipping industry reduced or ceased lending activities in the shipping industry. New banking regulations, including tightening of capital requirements and the resulting policies adopted by lenders, could further reduce lending activities. We may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments or be unable to fully draw on the capacity under our credit facilities committed in the future or refinance our credit facilities when our current facilities mature if our lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. We cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, as a result of the ongoing economic turmoil in Greece resulting from the sovereign debt crisis and the related austerity measures implemented by the Greek government, our operations in Greece may be subjected to new regulations that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Greek government new taxes or other fees. We also face the risk that strikes, work stoppages, civil unrest and violence within Greece may disrupt our shoreside operations and those of our managers located in Greece. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our LPG carriers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter‑to‑quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we may pay to our shareholders from quarter‑to‑quarter. The LPG carrier market is typically stronger in the spring and summer months in anticipation of increased consumption of propane and butane for heating during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and conversely, our revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our quarterly operating results. An over‑supply of ships may lead to a reduction in charter rates, vessel values and profitability. The market supply of LPG carriers is affected by a number of factors, such as supply and demand for LPG, natural gas and other energy resources, including oil and petroleum products, supply and demand for seaborne transportation of such energy resources, and the current and expected purchase orders for newbuildings. If the capacity of new LPG carriers delivered exceeds the capacity of such vessel types being scrapped and converted to non‑trading vessels, global fleet capacity will increase. If the supply of LPG carrier capacity increases, particularly VLGCs, the segment on which we focus, and if the demand for the capacity of such vessel types decreases or does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline. A reduction in charter rates and the value of our vessels may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The market values of our vessels may fluctuate significantly. When the market values of our vessels are low, we may incur a loss on sale of a vessel or record an impairment charge, which may adversely affect our earnings and possibly lead to defaults under our loan agreement or under future loan agreements we may enter into. Vessel values are both cyclical and volatile, and may fluctuate due to a number of different factors, including general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; sophistication and condition of the vessels; types and sizes of vessels; competition from other shipping companies; the availability of other modes of transportation; increases in the supply of vessel capacity; charter rates; the cost and delivery of newbuildings; governmental or other regulations; supply and demand for LPG products; prevailing freight rates; and the need to upgrade secondhand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. 15 Due to the cyclical nature of the market, if for any reason we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be for less than the vessel's carrying value in our financial statements, resulting in a loss and reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values experience significant declines, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreement or future loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing or pay dividends, if any. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. Future technological innovation could reduce our charterhire income and the value of our vessels. The charterhire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel's physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. We believe that our fleet will, upon delivery of our committed newbuildings, be among the youngest and most eco‑friendly fleet of all our competitors. However, if new LPG carriers are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the amount of charterhire payments we receive for our vessels and the resale value of our vessels could significantly decrease. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in fuel, or bunker, prices may adversely affect profits. While we do not bear the cost of fuel or bunkers under time and bareboat charters, fuel is a significant expense in our shipping operations when vessels are deployed under spot charters. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce profitability. We are subject to regulation and liability, including environmental laws, which could require significant expenditures and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Our business and the operation of our vessels are subject to complex laws and regulations and materially affected by government regulation, including environmental regulations in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. These regulations include, but are not limited to the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA90, that establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills and applies to any discharges of oil from a vessel, including discharges of fuel oil (bunkers) and lubricants, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as MARPOL, including the designation of Emission Control Areas, or ECAs, thereunder, the IMO International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention of Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, the IMO International Convention of Load Lines of 1966, as from time to time amended, and the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, as from time to time amended and generally referred to as SOLAS. To comply with these and other regulations we may be required to incur additional costs to modify our vessels, meet new operating maintenance and inspection requirements, develop contingency plans for potential spills, and obtain insurance coverage. We are also required by various governmental and quasi‑governmental agencies to obtain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. These permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances may be issued or renewed with terms that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Because these laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or the impact they may have on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. However, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which could materially adversely affect our operations. For example, a future serious incident, such as the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico may result in new regulatory initiatives. 16 The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention ("ISM Code"). The ISM Code requires ship owners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" ("SMS") that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a ship owner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject the owner or charterer to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. In our case, non‑compliance with the ISM Code may result in breach of our loan covenants. Currently, each of the vessels in our fleet is ISM Code‑certified. Because these certifications are critical to our business, we place a high priority on maintaining them. Nonetheless, there is the possibility that such certifications may not be renewed. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability insurance coverage in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. In addition, we carry hull and machinery and protection and indemnity insurance to cover the risks of fire and explosion. Under certain circumstances, fire and explosion could result in a catastrophic loss. We believe that our present insurance coverage is adequate, but not all risks can be insured, and there is the possibility that any specific claim may not be paid, or that we will not always be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates. If the damages from a catastrophic spill exceeded our insurance coverage, the effect on our business would be severe and could possibly result in our insolvency. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and compliance with such new regulations will be more expensive for us and our competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release from one of our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels are subject to periodic inspections by a classification society. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. The VLGCs from our Initial Fleet are currently classed with Lloyd's Register, the Comet is currently classed with American Bureau of Shipping ("ABS") and the Grendon is currently classed with Nippon Kaiji Kyokai. We expect that our newbuildings will be classed with Lloyd's Register, ABS and Det Norske Veritas. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five‑year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. However, for vessels not exceeding 15 years that have means to facilitate underwater inspection in lieu of drydocking the drydocking can be skipped and be conducted concurrently with the special survey. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of covenants in our loan agreements and insurance contracts or other financing arrangements. This would adversely impact our operations and revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and others may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships or, possibly, another vessel managed by one of our major shareholders, Scorpio Tankers, SeaDor Holdings or Dorian Holdings or entities affiliated with them. 17 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of revenues. The government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risks involved with operating ocean‑going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and share price. The operations of our vessels are subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, explosions, piracy and terrorism, loss of life, cargo and property losses or damage. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through spillage of fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in operations, or extensive uncontrolled fires. We could be exposed to substantial liabilities, i.e. pollution and environmental liabilities, not recoverable under our insurances. Our vessel operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, human error, war, political action in various countries, labor strikes, abnormal weather conditions etc., all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The involvement of our vessels in a serious accident could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and lead to a loss of business. We may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are currently not involved in any litigation matters that are expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Nevertheless, we anticipate that we could be involved in litigation matters from time to time in the future. The operating hazards inherent in our business expose us to litigation, including personal injury litigation, environmental litigation, contractual litigation with clients, intellectual property litigation, tax or securities litigation, and maritime lawsuits including the possible arrest of our vessels. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter. Any future litigation may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with prosecuting or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management's attention to these matters. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected repair costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a shipyard facility. The costs of repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would have an adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We do not intend to carry business interruption insurance. Acts of piracy on ocean‑going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean‑going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, West Africa and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Since 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, most recently off the coast of West Africa. For example, in October 2010, Somali pirates captured the York, an LPG carrier, which is not affiliated with us, off the coast of Kenya. The vessel was released after a ransom was paid in March 2011. If these piracy attacks occur in regions in which our vessels are deployed and are characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden continues to be, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage, for which we are responsible with respect to vessels employed on spot charters, but not vessels employed on bareboat or time charters, could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks, such as political conflict and terrorism, which may interfere with the operation of our vessels and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg (which is not affiliated with our Company) was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001 and more recent attacks in other parts of the world, and the military response of the United States and other nations, including the conflict in Iraq, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. Hostilities in or closure of major waterways in the Middle East, Ukraine or Black Sea region could adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products, as well as LPG, and negatively affect our investment and our customers' investment decisions over an extended period of time. In addition, sanctions against oil exporting countries such as Iran, Russia, Sudan and Syria may also impact the availability of crude oil, petroleum products and LPG and which would increase the availability of applicable vessels thereby impacting negatively charter rates. Further, instability on the Korean peninsula could adversely affect our VLGC Newbuilding Program, which consists of contracts with South Korean shipyards. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LPG or natural gas facilities or oil refineries and LPG carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect the continued supply of LPG. Concern that LPG and natural gas facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to a significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of natural gas facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving a gas facility or gas carrier did occur, the incident may adversely affect necessary LPG facilities or natural gas facilities currently in operation. Furthermore, future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common shares. Since January 1, 2010, none of our vessels has called on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan, Syria and North Korea, although in the future our vessels may call on ports in these countries from time to time on our charterers' instructions. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions involving Iran to include ships or shipping services by non‑U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in October 2012, President Obama issued an executive order implementing the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (the "ITRA") which extends the application of all U.S. laws and regulations relating to Iran to non‑U.S. companies controlled by U.S. companies or persons as if they were themselves U.S. companies or persons, expands categories of sanctionable activities, adds additional forms of potential sanctions and imposes certain related reporting obligations with respect to activities of SEC registrants and their affiliates. The ITRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. Finally, in January 2013, the U.S. enacted the Iran Freedom and Counter‑Proliferation Act of 2012 (the "IFCPA") which expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions on any person that is part of Iran's energy, shipping or shipbuilding sector and operators of ports in Iran, and imposes penalties on any person who facilitates or otherwise knowingly provides significant financial, material or other support to these entities. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may vary or may be subject to changing interpretations and we may be unable to prevent our charterers from violating contractual and legal restrictions on their operations of the vessels. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties for us and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common shares may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 19 Risks Relating To Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may be highly volatile. The market price of the common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. An adverse development in the market price for our common shares could also negatively affect our ability to issue new equity to fund our activities. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well‑developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non‑statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Our board of directors may not declare dividends. While we have not paid any dividends since our inception in July 2013, our longer‑term objective is to pay dividends in order to enhance shareholder returns. We will evaluate the potential level and timing of dividends as soon as profits and newbuilding capital expenditure requirements allow. However, the timing and amount of any dividend payments will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, earnings, capital expenditure commitments, market prospects, current capital expenditure programs, investment opportunities, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of distributions to shareholders, and the terms and restrictions of our loan agreement and other future credit facilities. The international liquefied petroleum gas shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described herein. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance our acquisitions of additional vessels through debt financings or the net proceeds of future equity issuances on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce the amount of any cash available for the payment of dividends. In general, under the terms of our credit facility and the additional credit facilities that we expect to enter into, we will not be permitted to pay dividends if there is a default or a breach of a loan covenant. Our subsidiaries that own the three VLGCs in our Initial Fleet and who are party to our existing secured term loan facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland are prohibited from paying dividends to us without the consent of the lender. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources" of this report for more information relating to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of such credit facilities. The Republic of Marshall Islands laws generally prohibit the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or surplus to make distributions to us. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid at all. We may have to issue additional shares in the future, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We may issue additional shares in the future in connection with, among other things, future vessel acquisitions or repayment of outstanding indebtedness, without shareholder approval, in a number of circumstances. Our issuance of additional shares would have the following effects: our existing shareholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; the amount of cash available for dividends payable per share may decrease; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and the market price of our shares may decline. 20 A future sale of shares by major shareholders may reduce the share price. Upon consummation of our initial public offering and exercise of the underwriters' overallotment, certain of our existing shareholders owned 33,789,576 shares, or approximately 59.1%, of our outstanding common shares, which may be resold subject to the volume, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as a result of their status as our "affiliates." Furthermore, shares held by such existing shareholders are subject to the underwriters' 180 day lock‑up agreement (120 days in the case of 2,562,950 shares). However, after the lock‑up period expires, these shareholders will be able to register all of the common shares owned by them pursuant to a registration rights agreement. Sales or the possibility of sales of substantial amounts of our common shares by our existing shareholders in the public markets could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional cost and expense. We are a foreign private issuer, as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. However, under Rule 405, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on September 30, 2014. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our shareholders, directors or management are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. Although we have elected not to comply with certain U.S. regulatory provisions, our loss of foreign private issuer status would make such provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. For example, the annual report on Form 10‑K requires domestic issuers to disclose executive compensation information on an individual basis with specific disclosure regarding the compensation philosophy, objectives, annual total compensation (base salary, bonus, equity compensation) and potential payments in connection with change in control, retirement, death or disability, while the annual report on Form 20‑F permits foreign private issuers to disclose compensation information on an aggregate basis. We would also have to mandatorily comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders would become subject to the short‑swing profit disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we would lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on the NYSE that are available to foreign private issuers, including the exemption from the requirement that a majority of our board of directors satisfy the NYSE independence criteria, which may require us to appoint a number of additional independent directors. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Republic of The Marshall Islands corporation and several of our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Some of our officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and officers are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons. You may also have difficulty enforcing, both in and outside the United States, judgments you may obtain in U.S. courts against us or any of these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. Furthermore, there is substantial doubt that the courts of the Republic of The Marshall Islands or of the non‑U.S. jurisdictions in which our offices are located would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. It is further doubtful whether courts in the Marshall Islands will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in the Marshall Islands against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. We are an "emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies." We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our share price may be more volatile. 21 In addition, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act of 2002 for so long as we are an emerging growth company. For as long as we take advantage of the reduced reporting obligations, the information that we provide shareholders may be different from information provided by other public companies. Our organizational documents contain anti‑takeover provisions. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred shares without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three‑year terms; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • restricting business combinations with interested stockholders. These anti‑takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of our shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common shares and shareholders' ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 