D. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—Contractual arrangements we have entered into with Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin and Beijing Jiajujiu may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we, Beijing Leju, Shanghai Yi Xin or Beijing Jiajujiu owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment.” Our consolidated variable interest entities have paid and will continue to pay the service fees to our relevant PRC subsidiaries pursuant to the exclusive technical support agreements between them. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax rate of 10% will be applicable to dividends payable by Chinese companies to non-PRC-resident enterprises unless otherwise exempted or reduced according to treaties or arrangements between the PRC central government and governments of other countries or regions where the non-PRC-resident enterprises are incorporated. We have not received any dividend payments or other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries, and as we currently intend to retain all of the available funds and any future earnings of our PRC subsidiaries to fund the development and growth of our business, we do not expect to receive any dividend payments or other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the ability of our consolidated variable interest entities to pay service fees to our PRC subsidiaries or the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities enable us to prevent them from entering into debt arrangements that may be detrimental to us because these contractual arrangements provide us with the ability to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of our consolidated variable interest entities. In addition, the exclusive call option agreements among our PRC subsidiaries, consolidated variable interest entities and their respective shareholders specifically provide that the applicable consolidated variable interest entity shall not, and its shareholders shall ensure that the consolidated variable interest entity does not, incur any loan or offer any guarantee without the prior written consent of our applicable PRC subsidiary. However, any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated variable interest entities to pay dividends or make other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities, or may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, subject to satisfaction of applicable governmental registration and approval requirements. Any loans we extend to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, cannot exceed the statutory limit and must be registered with the local counterpart of the SAFE. The statutory limit for the total amount of foreign debt of a foreign-invested company is the difference between the amount of total investment and the amount of registered capital of such foreign-invested company as approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. The current statutory limit on the loans we may make to Beijing Maiteng, our PRC subsidiary, is HK$40 million ($5.2 million). The current total investment in each of our other PRC subsidiaries, namely, Shanghai SINA Leju, Shanghai Yi Yue, E-House City Rehouse Real Estate Broker (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or City Rehouse, Leju (China) Internet Technology Co., Ltd, or Leju IT, and Shanghai Fangxin Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Fangxin, is in the same amount of their respective registered capital. In order for us to make loans to any of our PRC subsidiaries, the subsidiary would need to apply to the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart to increase its total investment. The permitted maximum amount of foreign loans that the subsidiary is eligible to raise would be equal to the difference between the total investment and the registered capital. After the increase of total investment is approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart, we may extend loans to the relevant PRC subsidiary in an amount that does not exceed the difference referenced above. Any loans we extend to our consolidated variable interest entities or other PRC operating companies that are domestic PRC entities, must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission or its local counterpart and must also be registered with SAFE or its local branches. 28 Table of Contents We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, these capital contributions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. In addition, the SAFE has also issued a few circulars with respect to the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi and the flow and use of such Renminbi fund. On March 30, 2015, SAFE issued the Circular on the Reforming of the Management Method of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, which will be valid on June 1, 2015, or SAFE Circular 19. Under SAFE Circular 19, a foreign-invested enterprise may choose converting its registered capital from foreign currency to Renminbi on self-discretionary basis, and the Renminbi capital converted can be used for equity investments within PRC, which will be regarded as the reinvestment of foreign-invested enterprise. Before the promulgation of SAFE Circular 19, the SAFE had strong oversight in this area, but also introduced reforms to facilitate the business and capital operations of foreign invested enterprises. In 2008, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The use of such Renminbi fund may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi fund may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. In August 2014, the SAFE issued the Circular on the Relevant Issues Concerning the Launch of Reforming Trial of the Administration Model of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises in Certain Areas, or SAFE Circular 36, which suspended the application of SAFE Circular 142 in certain areas and allowed a foreign-invested enterprise registered in the designated areas to use the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital for equity investments within the PRC., which is regarded as the reinvestment of foreign-invested enterprise. After the SAFE Circular 19 becomes valid, both SAFE Circular 142 and SAFE Circular 36 will be abolished. SAFE also promulgated a circular in November 2011, which prohibits a foreign-invested enterprise from using Renminbi funds converted from its foreign currency registered capital to provide entrustment loans or repay loans borrowed from non-financial enterprises. Violation of these circulars could result in severe monetary or other penalties. These circulars may limit our ability to transfer funds to our consolidated variable interest entities and the subsidiaries of our PRC subsidiaries, and we may not be able to convert funds into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other consolidated variable interest entities in China. Despite the restrictions under these SAFE circulars, our PRC subsidiaries may use their income in Renminbi generated from their operations to finance the relevant consolidated variable interest entities through entrustment loans to the consolidated variable interest entities or loans to such variable interest entities’ shareholders for the purpose of making capital contributions to such variable interest entities. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries can use Renminbi funds converted from foreign currency registered capital to carry out any activities within their normal course of business and business scope, including to purchase or lease servers and other relevant equipment and fund other operational needs in connection with their provision of services to the relevant consolidated variable interest entities under the applicable exclusive technical support agreements. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans to our PRC subsidiaries or any consolidated variable interest entity or future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 29 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to a Circular on Enterprise Income Tax Preferential Treatments issued by the State Administration of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance effective as of February 22, 2008, as partially amended by a Circular on Enterprise Income Tax Policies for Further Encouraging the Development of the Software Industry and the Integrated Circuit Industry, a qualified software enterprise is eligible to be exempted from income tax for its first two profitable years, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax, to a rate of 12.5%, for the subsequent three years. Shanghai SINA Leju was recognized as a qualified software enterprise in February 2009 and was further approved by the local tax authority in June 2009, and, thus, became eligible to be exempted from income tax for 2009, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2010 through 2012. Another wholly owned subsidiary, Shanghai Fangxin, was recognized as a qualified software enterprise and was further approved by the local tax authority in October 2012 to become eligible for being exempted from income tax for 2012 and 2013, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2014 through 2016. Shanghai SINA Leju was entitled to enjoy a favorable statutory tax rate of 15% for 2013 and 2014 as a “high and new technology enterprise.” Shanghai SINA Leju renewed its qualification of “high and new technology enterprise” in 2015 and is entitled to enjoy a favorable statutory tax rate of 15% from 2015 through 2017. If Shanghai SINA Leju or Shanghai Fangxin fails to maintain software enterprise status or “high and new technology enterprise” status, their applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Various local governments in China have also provided discretionary preferential tax treatments to us. However, at any time, these local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these preferential tax treatments. Furthermore, these local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes as a result. We are required under U.S. GAAP to accrue taxes for these contingencies. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of these preferential tax treatments and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfer of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises or other assets attributed to a PRC establishment of a non-PRC company, or immovable properties located in China owned by their non-PRC holding companies. We face uncertainties on the reporting and consequences on private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by investors who are non-PRC resident enterprises. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice on Several Issues Concerning Enterprise Income Tax for Indirect Share Transfer by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Bulletin 7, which replaced previous rules under the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the SAT in 2009. Pursuant to SAT Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of assets of a PRC resident enterprise, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such transaction arrangement lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding payment of PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. According to SAT Bulletin 7, “PRC taxable assets” include assets attributed to an establishment in China, immovable properties located in China, and equity interests in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. In respect of an indirect transfer of assets of a PRC establishment, the resulting gain is to be included with the enterprise income tax filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. If the underlying transfer relates to immovable properties located in China or to equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, if any, and the party who is obligated to make payments for the transfer has a withholding obligation. Although SAT Bulletin 7 does not apply to share transfers of publicly traded companies, there is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Bulletin 7 or previous rules under SAT Circular 698. We and our non-PRC resident investors may be at risk of being subject to tax filing or withholding obligations under SAT Bulletin 7 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Bulletin 7 or to establish that we should not be taxed under SAT Bulletin 7. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing and withholding or tax payment obligations on the transferors and transferees, while our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing. Any PRC tax imposed on a transfer of our shares or any adjustment of such gains would cause us to incur additional costs and may have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. 30 Table of Contents Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income, and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the EIT Law and our investors may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign invested companies would be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from a PRC subsidiary to its foreign parent company will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%, unless such foreign parent company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to PRC tax laws. Under the Administrative Measures for Non-Residents Enjoying Tax Treaty Benefits (Trial Implementation), effective on October 1, 2009, our Hong Kong subsidiaries need to obtain approval from the relevant local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in order to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% in accordance with the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income. The PRC State Administration of Taxation further clarified in a circular that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this stage whether this circular applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. However, it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries might not be considered as “beneficial owners” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries and as a result would be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. As a result, there is no assurance that our Hong Kong subsidiaries will be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate. In addition, under the EIT Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside of China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the EIT Law, “de facto management bodies” are defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. A subsequent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. The EIT Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to resident enterprise issues. Although our offshore holding companies are not controlled by any PRC company or company group, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and its implementation rules. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, may be exempt from PRC tax since such income is exempted under the EIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the EIT Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, and the PRC foreign exchange control authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as PRC resident enterprises, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. In addition, ambiguities also exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends payable to non-resident holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs, and the gains such investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax (or 20% in the case of non-resident individual holders), unless otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to treaties or applicable PRC law. If we became a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and received income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flows would be adversely affected due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the EIT Law. Additionally, we would incur an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax cost if we distributed our profits to our ultimate shareholders. There is, however, not necessarily an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax on the piece of the profits distributed from our PRC subsidiaries, since they would have been subject to PRC dividend withholding tax even if we were not a PRC tax resident. 31 Table of Contents Failure to obtain the approvals or complete the filings required for our real estate agency and brokerage business in China may limit our ability to provide real estate agency and brokerage services or establish new PRC operating entities. Currently, we mainly use City Rehouse, and its subsidiaries to provide support for our e-commerce business. Certain of the support services provided by City Rehouse and its subsidiaries may be regarded as real estate agency and brokerage services under PRC law. Pursuant to the previous Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue issued in 2011, foreign ownership of the real estate agency and brokerage business in China is subject to government approval. Accordingly, the establishment of, or investment in any company with a registered business scope of, real estate agency and brokerage services in China by our PRC subsidiaries directly is, and by our PRC subsidiaries indirectly through their subsidiaries may be, subject to approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its relevant local counterparts which should be obtained before registering such company with the SAIC or its local counterparts. Although City Rehouse has not obtained approval from the competent local branch of the PRC Ministry of Commerce in connection with its establishment of, or investment in, its subsidiaries with a registered business scope of real estate brokerage business, each subsidiary of City Rehouse has obtained and maintained a business license with such business scope, and none of such subsidiaries has received any notice of warning or penalties from the competent authorities for lacking such approval. The latest Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, which became effective on April 10, 2015, loosens the restrictions on foreign ownership of the real estate agency and brokerage business in China by removing it from the restricted category for foreign investment. Under the new catalogue, City Rehouse no longer needs the approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its relevant local counterparts for the establishment of, or investment in any new PRC subsidiary with a registered business scope of real estate agency and brokerage services. However, we cannot assure you that the historical non-compliance of City Rehouse not obtaining the requisite government approval would not be found as a violation by relevant PRC government authorities. If the historical non-compliance were found and determined by the relevant PRC government authorities as a violation, our relevant subsidiaries would be subject to warnings, fines or even revocation of its licenses. In addition, pursuant to the relevant regulations regarding real estate agency and brokerage businesses, a real estate broker must conduct a filing with the real estate administrative authority within 30 days after issuance of its business license. We have completed the filing with the competent local real estate administrative authorities for our 22 PRC operating entities which currently provide support services considered to be real estate agency and brokerage services under the PRC law. In addition, among our other 11 PRC operating entities with the registered business scope of real estate brokerage business which are intended to provide support services to our e-commerce business, we are in the process of making such filings with the relevant local real estate administrative authorities for 2 entities, and are in the process of preparing the relevant application documents with respect to all the remaining 9 entities which intend to make such filings. The requirements of the local real estate administrative authority for such filing may vary in different cities and we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete such filing in a timely manner or at all. If we fail to properly complete such filings, it may limit the ability of the relevant PRC operating entities to provide similar support service to our e-commerce business. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issued the audit reports included in this annual report filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections and lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 32 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Starting in 2011 the PRC affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm) were affected by a conflict between U.S. and PRC law. Specifically, for certain U.S.-listed companies operating and audited in mainland China, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain from the PRC firms access to their audit work papers and related documents. The firms were, however, advised and directed that under PRC law they could not respond directly to the U.S. regulators on those requests, and that requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China had to be channeled through the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. In late 2012, this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the PRC-based accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm). A first instance trial of the proceedings in July 2013 in the SEC’s internal administrative court resulted in an adverse judgment against the firms. The administrative law judge proposed penalties on the firms including a temporary suspension of their right to practice before the SEC, although that proposed penalty did not take effect pending review by the SEC. On February 6, 2015, before SEC’s review had taken place, the firms reached a settlement with the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to PRC-based accounting firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If they fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains the authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. Remedies for any future noncompliance could include, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a single firm’s performance of certain audit work, commencement of a new proceeding against a firm, or in extreme cases the resumption of the current proceeding against all four firms. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC-based, U.S.-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In 2015, the closing price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, varied from a high of $13.30 to a low of $4.38. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations due to factors beyond our control, such as broad market and industry factors. The securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies, particularly in recent years. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Since 2011, some China-based companies became targets of short sellers. Any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. Although we have confidence in our corporate governance practice and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such attack. Any negative news or perceptions about our corporate governance or accounting practice in the future, regardless of its merits, will negatively affect the trading performance of our ADSs. In addition, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. 33 Table of Contents In addition to the broad market and industry fluctuations, factors specific to our own operations may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, including the following: · variations in our net revenues, earnings and cash flow; · announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures by us or our competitors; · announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · fluctuations in our operating metrics; · additions or departures of key personnel; · release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; · detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; · regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; and · potential litigation or regulatory investigations. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: · the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC, of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and · the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material nonpublic information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, we intend to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NYSE. Press releases relating to financial results and material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC will be less extensive and less timely as compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by U.S. domestic issuers. As a result, you may not be afforded the same protections or information, which would be made available to you, were you investing in a U.S. domestic issuer. 34 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If research analysts do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our ADSs or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. The sale or availability for sale, or perceived sale or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2016, we had 139,489,416 ordinary shares issued, including the 4,243,550 ordinary shares that had been issued to our depositary and reserved for future grants under our share incentive plan, and 93,694,920 and 21,231,220 ordinary shares were held by E-House and Tencent, respectively. The sale or perceived sale of a substantial amount of our ADSs by E-House or Tencent could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our ADSs. Such sales or perceived sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, if we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS, or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company limited by shares incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Companies Law (2013 Revision) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies like us have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our existing articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. 35 Table of Contents Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, differ significantly from requirements for companies incorporated in other jurisdictions such as the United States. Currently, we do not plan to rely on home country practice with respect to any corporate governance matter. However, if we choose to follow home country practice in the future, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would under rules and regulations applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in our home jurisdiction. We are a Cayman Islands company and a substantial majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. A significant percentage of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, a significant majority of our current directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the federal or state courts of the United States, and the Cayman Islands are not a party to any treaties for the reciprocal enforcement or recognition of such judgments. A judgment obtained in such jurisdiction will be recognized and enforced in the courts of the Cayman Islands at common law, without any re-examination of the merits of the underlying dispute, by an action commenced on the foreign judgment debt in the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands, provided such judgment (i) was given by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction, (ii) imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given, (iii) is final, (iv) is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty, and (v) was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands. However, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely to enforce a judgment obtained from the U.S. courts under civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities law if such judgment is determined by the courts of the Cayman Islands to give rise to obligations to make payments that are penal or punitive in nature. Because such determination has not yet been made by a court of the Cayman Islands, it is uncertain whether such civil liability judgments from U.S. courts would be enforceable in the Cayman Islands. You, as holders of ADSs, may have fewer rights than holders of our ordinary shares and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. 36 Table of Contents The return of your investment our ADSs will primarily depend upon any future price appreciation of our ADS. Subject to our memorandum and articles of association and the laws of the Cayman Islands, our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Our shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare a dividend, but not exceeding the amount recommended by our board of directors. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of dividends will depend on, among other things, our results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend primarily upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 37 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. We will be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or “PFIC” for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income or (ii) 50% or more of the value of our assets (as determined on the basis of a quarterly average) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our consolidated variable interest entities as being owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective control over the operation of such entities but also because we are entitled to substantially all of their economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated financial statements. While we believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and do not expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year and the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given in this regard because the determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC is a factual determination made annually that will depend, in part, upon the composition of our income and assets. Fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC for the current taxable year or future taxable years because the value of our assets for purposes of the asset test, including the value of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, may be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and the value of our assets from time to time, including, in particular the value of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles (which may depend upon the market value of our ADSs or ordinary shares from time-to-time, (which may be volatile). Furthermore, the determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where our revenue from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our revenue from activities that produce non-passive income, or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. It is also possible that the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our classification or valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, which may result in our company being or, becoming classified as, a PFIC for the current or future taxable years. In addition, there can be no assurance our business plans will not change in a manner that will affect our PFIC status. 38 Table of Contents If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) may incur significantly increased U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the U.S. federal income tax rules. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, including the possibility of making a “mark-to-market” election. See the discussion under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in the ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC, including the possibility of making a “mark-to-market” election. 