D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. 3 Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue is currently generated from a limited number of products, and any decline in the sales of these products or failure to gain market acceptance of these products will negatively impact our business. To date, we have focused extensively on the development and commercialization of Aorfix for the treatment of AAA. Following our acquisition of Altura, we launched the Altura Endovascular Stent Graft in CE Mark countries in January 2016. If we are unable to continue to achieve and maintain greater market acceptance of these products and do not achieve sustained positive cash flow from operations, we will be constrained in our ability to fund development and commercialization of improvements in our products and other product lines. In addition, if we are unable to market our products as a result of a quality problem, or failure to maintain regulatory approvals, we would lose our primary source of revenue and our business would be negatively affected. We may not succeed in commercializing our products for several reasons, including: ■ physicians and hospitals may continue relying on open surgical repair, or use the other approved EVAR devices available for patients; ■ our direct sales force may not be large enough, or effective enough to sufficiently train and educate physicians and hospitals about the benefits of our products; ■ coverage and reimbursement for our products may not be sufficient for customers to choose our device when in need of an EVAR device; ■ new technologies, or improved products by competitors; and ■ negative publicity about, or actual or perceived problems with our produtcs could discourage physician and hospital adoption of our products. If we are unable to educate physicians and hospitals about the advantages of our products, do not achieve significantly greater market acceptance of our products, do not gain momentum in our sales activities, or fail to significantly grow our market share, we will not be able to grow our revenue and our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. We have a history of operating losses. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. The Group incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 of $37.8 million (2014: $34.8 million), and as at December 31, 2015 had an accumulated deficit of $227.9 million (2014: $192.9 million) and cash and cash equivalents of $32.3 million (2014: $53.3 million). Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have, for the foreseeable future, an adverse effect on our stockholders’ deficit and working capital. We have never achieved profitability, and do not anticipate being profitable in the near future. If our revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve profitability, our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have expressed their opinion that there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to successfully raise adequate additional financing and our ability to successfully develop our sales and marketing programs and commence our planned operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing or achieve profitability in our operations. Our failure to obtain additional financing or achieve profitability in our operations could require the Company to liquidate our business interests, and could result in the loss of your entire investment. We will be required to obtain additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Based on forecasts revised in December 2015, we expect to use up our current cash resources between Q3 2016 and Q1 2017, depending on the effectiveness of the cost savings programs being implemented by management. We will therefore need to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness to continue to fund our future operations, which may come from one or a number of public or private sources. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on the results of our continued marketing of our Aorfix product line, including the commercial launch of the IntelliFlex LP Delivery System, our commercialization efforts for the Altura Endovascular Stent Graft, as well as clinical and regulatory events. It may also be impacted by adverse financial, economic, and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that sufficient funds will be available when required or on satisfactory terms. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in ownership dilution to existing stockholders. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise additional financing for the amounts required to execute our business plans and on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available on terms that are acceptable when required by us, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could result in insolvency. In addition, we may have to delay, reduce the scope or eliminate some of our research and development or sales activities, which could delay the time to market for any of our product candidates or reduce our revenue growth potential, if such adequate funds are not available. 4 Our cash requirements in the future may be significantly different from our current estimates and depend on many factors, including: ■ the results of our commercialization efforts for our products; ■ the need for additional capital to fund future development programs; ■ the costs involved in obtaining and enforcing patents or any litigation by third parties regarding intellectual property; ■ the establishment and maintenance of high volume manufacturing and increased sales and marketing capabilities; and ■ our success in entering into collaborative relationships with other parties. To finance these activities, we will seek funds through borrowings or through additional rounds of financing, including private or public equity or debt offerings and collaborative arrangements with corporate partners. We may be unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all. During the recent economic instability, it has been difficult for many companies to obtain financing in the public markets or to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we borrow additional funds, or issue debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock, and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. We might have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, product candidates, or products that we otherwise would not relinquish. If we do not obtain additional resources, our ability to capitalize on business opportunities will be limited, and the growth of our business will be harmed. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the recent acquisition of Altura. The success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from integrating Altura’s business into our existing business operations. Our ability to realize these benefits, and the timing of this realization, depend upon a number of factors and future events, many of which we cannot control. These factors and events include: ■ the results of future clinical trials of Altura’s products, consisting of any endovascular stent-graft that comprises or incorporates (i) a braided stent frame with a ribbed graft, (ii) a substantially “D” or semi-circular cross-section, or (iii) reverse or retrograde deployment capability, which we refer to as the Altura Endovascular Stent Graft; ■ the receipt of approval from the FDA to sell the Altura Endovascular Stent Graft in the United States; ■ obtaining and maintaining patent rights relating to the Altura technology; ■ effectively consolidating research and development operations; ■ retaining and attracting key employees; ■ consolidating corporate and administrative functions; ■ continuing to develop an effective direct sales and marketing organization in Europe; ■ preserving our and Altura’s important business relationships; and ■ minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or otherwise more attractive than any products that we may develop, our ability to generate revenue will be reduced. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies. Several of the companies developing or marketing competing products enjoy several advantages, including: ■ greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; ■ significantly greater name recognition; ■ established relationships with physicians, customers and third-party payors; ■ additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; ■ established sales and marketing, and distribution networks; and ■ greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for competing products more rapidly than us, and develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales, and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business. If our competitors are more successful than us in these matters, our business may be harmed. 5 We have limited resources to invest in research and development and to grow our business and we will need to raise additional funds in the future for these activities. We believe that our growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to commercialize our products, as well as to develop new, or improved technologies for the treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders, and technology complementary to our existing products. Our existing resources may not allow us to conduct all of the sales and marketing and research and development activities that we believe would be beneficial for our future growth. As a result, we will need to seek funds in the future to finance these activities. If we are unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all, we may not be able to increase our research and development activities and the growth of our business may be negatively impacted. Our success depends on our ability to manage our business as we increase the scale of our operations. It may be difficult for us to control costs if we significantly expand our sales, marketing and manufacturing capacities. Changes in manufacturing and rapid expansion of personnel may mean that less experienced people are producing and selling our products, which could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. Our success in growing our business will depend upon our ability to implement improvements in our operational systems, including information technology systems and financial internal control procedures, realize economies of scale, manage multiple development projects, and continue to expand, train and manage our personnel and distributors worldwide. If we cannot scale and manage our business to expand sales of our products, we may not achieve our desired growth and our financial results may suffer. Reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. We manufacture all of our Aorfix products at our UK facility in Didcot. While the company we acquired during the year, Altura, does not currently manufacture products, we are utilizing a third-party manufacturer until manufacturing can be transitioned to our existing manufacturing facility in Didcot, which is expected to take place in 2016. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from single-source suppliers. Our use of these single-source suppliers of raw materials and components exposes us to several risks, including disruptions in supply, price increases, late deliveries and an inability to meet customer demand. Finding alternative sources for these raw materials and components could be difficult and in many cases could entail a significant amount of time, disruption and cost. We work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. However, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. In addition, as discussed below, we expect to require significantly more supply of the raw materials and components necessary to manufacture our products as we further expand sales. Quality problems with our products could harm our reputation and erode our competitive position, sales, and market share. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our products. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be harmed, we could lose customers, we could have to conduct a public recall, our continued sales could be hindered, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation will be harmed, our competitive position could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience decreasing prices for our products and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. We may experience decreasing prices for our products due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payors, increased market power of hospitals, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our products decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our success depends on our being able to capture a meaningful share of the EVAR market. According to Medtech Ventures, it is estimated that more than 500,000 AAA patients are diagnosed annually in the developed world, with 200,000 of such patients receiving treatment. Our growth will depend upon an increasing percentage of patients with AAA being diagnosed, and an increasing percentage of those diagnosed receiving EVAR, as opposed to an open surgical procedure. The failure of physicians to diagnose more patients with AAA could negatively impact our revenue growth. Our success depends on educating physicians so that they will use, and continue to use, our products in endovascular AAA procedures. Aorfix has a broader label than any approved EVAR product in the United States and Japan, as well as a broader label than all but one approved EVAR product in the European Union. However, many of our competitors with EVAR products not approved for angles above 60 degrees in the United States and Japan and 75 degrees, and one product at 90 degrees, in the European Union, are well known by physicians and their products may be chosen by physicians over Aorfix despite the absence of regulatory approval for use in these high angle anatomies. Below angles of 60 degrees in the United States and Japan, and 75 degrees in the European Union, there are several approved products in all jurisdictions where we compete and many are supported by competitors who have greater resources than we do. If we are unable to educate physicians with regard to the use of Aorfix both in high angle neck anatomies as well as for less challenging anatomies, our business could be negatively impacted. The Altura Endovascular Stent Graft is currently CE marked, but is not yet approved for use in the United States. However, once the product obtains this approval physicians will need to be educated in order for the product to be competitive in the marketplace. We completed FDA submission for IntelliFlex LP Delivery System for its Aorfix product line in December 2015 and are seeking clearance to market the device in 2016. We are seeking regulatory clearance to market the device in the EU and Japan in 2016 as well. Once the product obtains this approval physicians will need to be educated in order for the product to be competitive in the marketplace. 6 The continuing development of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with physicians. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and build relationships with new physicians, our products may not be marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support them, which could cause a decline in our revenues. The research, development, marketing, and sales of our products are dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and cash flows. If we fail to further develop and maintain our direct sales forces in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany, our business could suffer. We have direct sales forces for our products in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany, three of our four largest markets. We utilize a network of third-party distributors for other jurisdictions. As we continue to sell our products in our direct markets and increase our marketing efforts in Europe, we will need to maintain our current sales representatives and also likely increase the size of our sales force in Europe, primarily. There is significant competition for sales personnel experienced in relevant medical device sales. If we are unable to attract, motivate, develop, and retain qualified sales personnel and thereby grow our sales forces in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues. Our third-party distributors may not effectively distribute our approved products. We depend in part on medical device distributors and strategic relationships for the marketing and selling of our approved products as well as the training of physicians in the proper use of our approved products in the European Union, outside of the United Kingdom and Germany, in Asia and in Latin America. For example, since we have obtained regulatory approval for Aorfix in Japan, we depend on Medico’s Hirata to distribute Aorfix in Japan and to train physicians in Japan in how to properly use Aorfix. We depend on these distributors’ efforts to market our approved products and train physicians, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors comply with all applicable laws regarding the sale of our approved products. If our distributors fail to effectively market and sell our approved products, and to train physicians in full compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer. If clinical trials of our current or future products do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval, we will be unable to continue to commercialize these products. To market a medical device in the United States, we must obtain approval of a premarket approval application, (“PMA”), or clearance from the FDA under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, (the “FDCA”), unless an exemption from pre-market review applies. In order to obtain premarket approval and, in some cases, a 510(k) clearance, a product sponsor must conduct well controlled clinical trials designed to test the safety and effectiveness of the product. We will likely need to conduct additional clinical trials in the future to support new product approvals, or for the approval of new indications for the use of our products. Clinical testing is expensive, and typically takes many years, which carries an uncertain outcome. The data obtained from clinical trials may be inadequate to support approval or clearance of a submission. In addition, the occurrence of unexpected findings in connection with clinical trials may prevent or delay obtaining approval or clearance. The initiation and completion of any of our clinical trials may be prevented, delayed, or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: ■ the FDA, institutional review boards, (“IRBs”), or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol, force us to modify a previously approved protocol, or place a clinical study on hold; ■ subjects do not enroll in, or enroll at the expected rate, or complete a clinical study; ■ subjects, or investigators do not comply with study protocols; ■ subjects do not return for post-treatment follow-up at the expected rate; ■ subjects experience serious, or unexpected adverse side effects for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products such as the advanced stage of co-morbidities that may exist at the time of treatment, causing a clinical study to be put on hold; ■ sites participating in an ongoing clinical study may withdraw, requiring us to engage new sites; ■ difficulties, or delays associated with establishing additional clinical sites; ■ third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in our clinical studies, do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule, or are inconsistent with the investigator agreement, clinical study protocol, good clinical practices, and other FDA and IRB requirements; ■ third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; ■ regulatory inspections of our clinical studies require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical studies; ■ changes in federal, state, or foreign governmental statutes, regulations or policies; ■ interim results are inconclusive or unfavorable as to immediate and long-term safety or efficacy; ■ the study design is inadequate to demonstrate safety or efficacy; or ■ the clinical trials do not meet the study endpoints. 7 Failure can occur at any stage of clinical testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device, or indication for use. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business may be negatively affected. Our success depends in large part on our ability to secure effective intellectual property protection for our products and processes in the United States, and internationally. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark, and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have filed and intend to continue to file patent applications for various aspects of our technology to cover our products and processes. While we generally apply for patents in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use, or sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Additionally, we may fail to secure necessary patents prior to or after obtaining regulatory clearances, thereby permitting competitors to market competing products. Moreover, we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. We also cannot assure that the patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our U.S. patents. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time. Thus, we could adopt technology without knowledge of a pending patent application. In addition, the patents we already own could be challenged, re-examined, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. We also own trade secrets and confidential information that we try to protect by entering into confidentiality agreements with consultants, key employees and other relevant parties. However, the confidentiality agreements may not be honored or, if breached, we may not have sufficient remedies to protect our confidential information. Further, our competitors may independently learn our trade secrets or develop similar or superior technologies. To the extent that our consultants, key employees or others apply technological information to our projects that they develop independently or others develop, disputes may arise regarding the ownership of proprietary rights to such information, and such disputes may not be resolved in our favor. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business and commercial prospects will likely suffer. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We may need to engage in expensive and prolonged litigation to assert or defend any of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of rights claimed by other parties. If our products or processes infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties, the sale of our products may be challenged and we may have to defend costly and time-consuming infringement claims. The market for medical devices is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claim of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend and with no certainty as to the outcome, litigation could be too expensive for us to pursue. Our failure to prevail in such litigation, or our failure to pursue litigation could result in the loss of our rights that could substantially hurt our business. Our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent litigation. In addition, because of our developmental stage, claims that our products infringe on the patent rights of others are more likely to be asserted after commencement of commercial sales of new products incorporating our technology. Our failure to obtain rights to intellectual property of third parties, or the potential for intellectual property litigation, could divert management’s attention and force us to do one or more of the following things: ■ stop selling, making, or using products that use the disputed intellectual property; ■ obtain a license from the intellectual property owner to continue selling, making, licensing, or using products, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; ■ redesign our products, processes or services; or ■ pay significant damages. 8 Any of these outcomes could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products and may suffer severe financial harm. Whether or not an intellectual property claim is valid, the cost of responding to it, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, could harm our business. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. Manufacturing and marketing our commercial products, and clinical testing of our products and product candidates, may expose us to product liability claims. Although we have, and intend to maintain, product liability insurance, the coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate and one or more successful claims brought against us may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, adverse product liability actions could negatively affect our reputation, continued product sales, and our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We believe that our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, particularly Simon Hubbert, our Chief Executive Officer, William J. Kullback, our Chief Financial Officer, Peter Phillips, our Chief Technology Officer and Michael Gioffredi, our President, North America. The loss of any of the foregoing individuals would harm our business. Our ability to retain our executive officers and other key employees, and our success in attracting and hiring additional skilled employees, will be critical to our future success. Our U.S. administrative operations are currently based at a location that may be at risk from earthquakes. Our U.S. administrative operations are currently at a single location in Irvine, California, near known earthquake fault zones. Any future earthquake could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment, and cause us to incur additional expenses. An earthquake could seriously harm our business and results of operations. The insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. If any future acquisitions or business development efforts are unsuccessful, our business may be harmed. As part of our business strategy to be an innovative leader in the treatment of aortic disorders, we may need to acquire other companies, technologies, and product lines in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: ■ the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition, which could result in future non-cash impairment charges; ■ difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies, which may require significant attention of our management that otherwise would be available for the ongoing development of our business; ■ the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; and ■ difficulties in retaining key relationships with employees, customers, partners, and suppliers of the acquired company. In addition, we may invest in new technologies that may not succeed in the marketplace. If they are not successful, we may be unable to recover our initial investment, which could include the cost of acquiring the license, funding development efforts, acquiring products, or purchasing inventory. Any of these would negatively impact our future growth and cash reserves. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or if our products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially affected. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to illegally access our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Discovery of previously undisclosed, or unknown liabilities held by Altura could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions involve risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems. Following the completion of the acquisition, the surviving corporation, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, possesses not only all of the assets, but also all of the liabilities of Altura. Although we conducted a due diligence investigation of Altura and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, it is possible that undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems may arise which we were previously unaware of. These undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The amount of such liabilities may be in excess of the value of our ordinary shares that were placed into the escrow fund for twelve months following the closing of the acquisition to secure our rights to indemnification under the Acquisition Agreement, or such liabilities may not be uncovered until after our ordinary shares that were placed into the escrow fund have been released from the escrow fund. 9 Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry If third party payors do not provide reimbursement for the use of our products, our revenues may be negatively impacted. Our success in marketing our products depends in large part on whether U.S., Japan, European Economic Area, (“EEA”), and other government health administrative authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse customers for the cost of our products. Reimbursement for EVAR has been in place for a considerable period of time. Reimbursement codes for EVAR are in place in the United States, Japan, United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, Spain and other countries with developed healthcare systems. Our Company does not obtain specific or special reimbursement codes other than those codes which cover products in the EVAR market. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Further, many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. If sufficient reimbursement is not available for our current or future products, in either the United States, Japan, the EEA or elsewhere, the demand for our products will be adversely affected. We may be subject to, or otherwise affected by federal and state healthcare laws, including anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and such penalties could adversely impact our reputation and business operations. Our business operations and activities may be directly, or indirectly, subject to various federal, state and local fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act. In addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by the federal government, state governments and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include: ■ the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which applies to our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, offering, receiving, or providing compensation, directly or indirectly, intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare, or Medicaid programs; ■ federal false claims laws that prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other governmental healthcare programs that are false or fraudulent; ■ the federal “Stark Law,” which prohibits a physician from referring Medicare, or Medicaid patients to an entity providing “designated health services,” in which the physician has an ownership or investment interest or with which the physician has entered into a financial arrangement; ■ the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (“HIPAA”), and its implementing regulations (all as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act), which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; ■ federal “sunshine” requirements imposed by the Affordable Care Act, (“ACA”), on device and pharmaceutical manufacturers regarding any payment or “transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”, for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests) that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission. Manufacturers were required to begin collecting data on August 1, 2013 and were required to submit reports to the CMS by March 31, 2014 (and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year); and ■ state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state transparency requirements and state laws governing the privacy and security of certain health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. In addition, certain states mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs (and/or the maintenance of databases to ensure compliance with these laws) and/or impose additional restrictions on our financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers. Another development affecting fraud and abuse risks is the increased use of the whistle-blower or qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program. 10 Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors available under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with physicians or customers, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have an adverse impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our agreements with physicians as well as of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, we expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to healthcare fraud and abuse laws or enforcement, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. Our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of our products. Most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply, rely on third-party payors, including governmental healthcare programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which our products are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other third-party payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients or customers being unable to obtain coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. If coverage and reimbursement cannot be obtained by patients or customers, sales may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our products. The cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, in the United States, Japan, the EEA and elsewhere, could harm the results of our operations and prospects. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing has not been commonly used for medical devices, if managed care or other organizations were able to affect discount pricing for devices, it could result in lower prices to our customers from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our customers for our medical devices. Healthcare policy changes, including recent federal legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. Moreover, as discussed below, the ACA imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers such as us. The tax on medical devices and the adoption of proposals to control costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The ACA includes, among other things, a deductible 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States. This excise tax, which became effective on January 1, 2013, resulted in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, and if any efforts we undertake to offset the excise tax are unsuccessful, the increased tax burden could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The total cost imposed on the medical device industry by the ACA may be up to approximately $20 billion over ten years. In December 2015, President Obama signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, which imposed a two-year moratorium on the 2.3% excise tax beginning on January 1, 2016 and ending on December 31, 2017. Upon the end of this period we believe the medical device excise tax could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Other elements of the ACA, including (1) a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify research priorities and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, (2) an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to Congress to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate, (3) payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models and other provisions may significantly affect the payment for, and the availability of, healthcare services and result in fundamental changes to federal healthcare reimbursement programs, any of which may materially affect numerous aspects of our business. Regulatory policy changes, including recent proposals in the EEA to reform the legislation governing medical devices, may have a material adverse effect on us. In September 2012, the European Commission published proposals for the revision of the European Union (“EU”) regulatory framework for medical devices. The proposal would replace the Medical Devices Directive and two related directives concerning active implantable medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices respectively with a new regulation concerning medical devices and another concerning in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Unlike Directives that must be implemented into national laws, the Regulations would be directly applicable in all EEA Member States and so are intended to eliminate current national differences in regulation of medical devices. On October 22, 2013, the European Parliament approved a package of reforms to the European Commission’s proposals. Under the revised proposals, only designated “special notified bodies” would be entitled to conduct conformity assessments of high-risk devices. These special notified bodies will need to notify the European Commission when they receive an application for a conformity assessment for a new high-risk device. The Commission will then forward the notification and the accompanying documents on the device to the Medical Devices Coordination Group (“MDCG”) for an opinion. These new procedures may result in the re-assessment of our existing medical devices, or a longer or more burdensome assessment of our new products. 11 Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of AAA and other aortic disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products. Before we can market or sell a new regulated product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance from the FDA under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption from pre-market review applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labelling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. Both the 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and require the payment of significant fees, unless an exemption applies. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. In the United States, our currently commercialized products have received PMA approval. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: ■ we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended users; ■ the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; and ■ the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, clearance or approval for our products could prevent us from generating revenue from these products and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. Regulatory enforcement or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products and dissuade our customers from using our products. We may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by physicians or the payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: ■ properly identify and anticipate physician and patient needs; ■ develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; ■ avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; ■ demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials; ■ obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements; ■ be fully compliant with regulatory requirements for marketing new devices or modified products; ■ provide adequate training to potential users of our products; ■ receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and ■ develop an effective and compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new or improved products. Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan, the EU Commission, EEA Competent Authorities, and comparable foreign agencies. The FDA and other U.S. agencies, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the European Commission, EEA Competent Authorities, and foreign governmental agencies regulate, among other things, with respect to medical devices: ■ design, development and manufacturing; ■ testing, labelling, content and language of instructions for use and storage; ■ clinical trials; ■ product safety; ■ marketing, sales and distribution; ■ pre-market clearance and approval; ■ record keeping procedures; ■ advertising and promotion; ■ recalls and field safety corrective actions; ■ post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; ■ medical device tracking; ■ post-market approval studies; and ■ product import and export. 12 We also are subject to numerous additional licensing and regulatory requirements relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Some of the most important requirements we face include: ■ FDA Regulations (Title 21 CFR 820); ■ Japanese Regulations including: Japan Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (e.g. Law No.145 Established as of August 10, 1960, Law No. 87 Revised as of July 26, 2005); Regulations for Buildings and Facilities (e.g. MHLW Ministerial Ordinance No. 2, 1961); and, Manufacturing and Quality Control (MHLW Ministerial Ordinance No. 169, 2004); ■ European Union and EEA Member State legislation (e.g., the EU Medical Devices Directive 93/42/EEC) and CE mark requirements; ■ Medical Device Quality Management System Requirements (ISO 13485); ■ Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements; and ■ California Department of Health Services requirements. Government regulation may impede our ability to conduct continuing clinical trials, to obtain necessary premarket approvals or clearance, to obtain export approvals, and to manufacture our existing and future products. Government regulation also could delay our marketing of new products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures on our activities. The FDA, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, EEA Notified Bodies, and other regulatory agencies may not approve or certify any of our future products on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals or certifications could negatively impact our marketing of any proposed products and reduce our product revenues. The regulations to which we are subject are complex and have become more stringent over time. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the EEA Member State laws implementing the EU Medical Devices Directive, and other foreign laws and regulations. Our products remain subject to strict regulatory controls on manufacturing, marketing and use. We received FDA approval for Aorfix in February 2013 and continue to further develop our regulatory compliance program as we continue to roll-out the product in the United States. We may be forced to modify or recall our product after release in response to regulatory action or unanticipated difficulties encountered in general use. Any such action could have a material effect on the reputation of our products and on our business and financial position. Further, regulations may change, and any different or additional regulation could limit or restrict our ability to use any of our technologies, which could harm our business. We could also be subject to new international, federal, state or local regulations that could affect our research and development programs and harm our business in unforeseen ways. If this happens, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations, which will harm our results of operations. The failure to comply with applicable regulations could jeopardize our ability to sell our products and result in enforcement actions such as: ■ warning letters; ■ fines; ■ injunctions; ■ civil penalties; ■ termination of distribution; ■ recalls or seizures of products; ■ delays in the introduction of products into the market; ■ total or partial suspension of production; ■ refusal to grant future clearances, approvals or certificates; ■ withdrawals or suspensions of current clearances, approvals or certificates, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products; and ■ in the most serious cases, criminal penalties. The medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), Office of Inspector General and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. An adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements, (“CIAs”), with governmental agencies. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 The misuse or use of our products beyond the scope of their approval may harm our image in the marketplace; result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business; or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in promotion of such use. The products we currently market have been approved by the FDA, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or have been certified by EEA Notified Bodies with a specific indication for use on the approved product labelling. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, EEA Member State legislation implementing the EU Medical Devices Directive, and other applicable laws and regulations, including in many cases the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA in the United States, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan, or is not CE marked in the EU. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products outside of those approved indications, as the FDA and EU and EEA Member State legislation do not generally restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. Although we train our sales force to not promote our products for off-label uses, if the FDA or Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare or an EEA Competent Authority determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and financial results. We could also be subject to investigations or prosecutions by United States Attorneys or state attorneys general, or similar foreign authorities, which could lead to substantial fines or other penalties. The imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those approved by the FDA in the United States, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan or covered by the CE mark in the EEA, may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients or could potentially lead to patient injury. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls or voluntary market withdrawals that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. Based on information that we might receive or learn in connection with our marketed products, we might determine to initiate a voluntary recall or other corrective action. We could undertake a removal or correction if we determine that a marketed product is in violation of law or could potentially cause serious adverse health consequences. In addition, the FDA, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, EEA Competent Authorities, and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in certain situations, for example, in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could affect patient safety. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government mandated recall or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labelling defects or other issues. Depending on the corrective action we take to redress a product’s deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we will need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we may market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our sales as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future. Recalls, which include corrections as well as removals, of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, harm our reputation with customers, and reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues. In addition, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We are required to comply with medical device reporting, (“MDR”), requirements and vigilance requirements, and must report certain malfunctions, deaths, and serious injuries associated with our products, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA’s MDR regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to submit information to the FDA when they receive a report or become aware that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned, and would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the EEA are legally bound to report any incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred if the incident led or might have led to the death or serious injury to a patient, user or other person. Manufacturers are also required to report incidents that occur outside the EEA if they result in corrective action being taken within the EEA. Were we to submit an incident report, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. Malfunction of our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls, including corrections, or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement actions. If malfunctions do occur, we may be unable to correct the malfunctions adequately or prevent further malfunctions, in which case we may need to cease manufacture and distribution of the affected products, initiate voluntary recalls, and redesign the products. Regulatory authorities may also take actions against us, such as ordering recalls, imposing fines, or seizing the affected products. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. In addition, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. 14 If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations, this could impair our ability to market our products in a cost-effective and timely manner. We and our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, (“QSR”), which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labelling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA audits compliance with the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. The FDA may impose inspections or audits at any time. If we or our suppliers have significant non-compliance issues or if any corrective action plan that we or our suppliers propose in response to observed deficiencies is not sufficient, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: ■ untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; ■ customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention, or seizure of our products; ■ operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of production; ■ refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products or modified products; ■ withdrawing 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; ■ refusal to grant export approval for our products; or ■ criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Outside the United States, our products and operations are also often required to comply with standards set by industrial standards bodies, such as the International Organization for Standardization. Foreign regulatory bodies may evaluate our products or the testing that our products undergo against these standards. The specific standards, types of evaluation and scope of review differ among foreign regulatory bodies. If we fail to adequately comply with any of these standards, a foreign regulatory body may take adverse actions similar to those within the power of the FDA. Any such action may harm our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws could result in fines, criminal penalties, contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We operate in the medical device industry in several countries throughout the world, many of which pose elevated risks of anti-corruption violations. We sell our products through our direct sales force and through distributors to our end customers, including state-or-government-owned hospitals. This puts us and our distributors in contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” or “foreign public officials” under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, (the “FCPA”), and the Bribery Act 2010 of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, or the UK Bribery Act, respectively. In March 2013, we adopted an Anti-Bribery Policy, and we are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable anti-corruption laws. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities, or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of our operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations, as well as any investigation thereof, could damage our reputation and have an adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary share price may be highly volatile and, as a result, you could lose a significant portion or all of your investment or we could become subject to securities class action litigation. The market price of the ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market has and may continue to fluctuate as a result of several factors, including the following: ■ variations in our quarterly operating results; ■ volatility in our industry, the industries of our customers and the global securities markets; ■ risks relating to our business and industry, including those discussed above; ■ strategic actions by us or our competitors; ■ adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; ■ actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; ■ investor perception of us, the industry in which we operate, the investment opportunity associated with the ordinary shares and our future performance; ■ adverse media reports about us or our directors and officers; ■ addition or departure of our executive officers; ■ changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports by analysts regarding our ordinary shares, other comparable companies or our industry generally; ■ trading volume of our ordinary shares; ■ sales of our ordinary shares by us or our shareholders; ■ domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; or ■ the release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares. 15 Furthermore, the stock markets recently have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes may cause the market price of ordinary shares to decline. If the market price of our ordinary shares does not exceed the price you bought your ordinary shares for, you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If we fail to maintain NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement of a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, our shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “EVAR.” To continue to be listed on NASDAQ, we need to satisfy a number of requirements, including a minimum bid price for our ordinary shares of $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days. If we fail to comply with such requirement, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance by meeting the applicable standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, NASDAQ may afford us an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period we have demonstrated that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. On February 24, 2016, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. According to the letter from NASDAQ, the Company had a grace period of 180 calendar days, starting February 24, 2016, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On April 8, 2016 we received a follow-up letter from NASDAQ indicating that we had achieved a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or higher for ten consecutive business days, from March 24 to April 7, 2016, and as such, we had regained compliance with the minimum bid requirement. The purchase price of our ordinary shares might not reflect their value, and you may experience dilution as a result of future equity issuances. The purchase price of our ordinary shares might not reflect their value, and you may experience dilution as a result of future equity issuances. The exercise of outstanding options and future equity issuances, including future public offerings or future private placements of equity securities and any additional ordinary shares issued in connection with acquisitions, will result in further dilution to investors. Insiders will continue to have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As at the date of this Annual Report, we believe that our directors and executive officers and shareholders holding more than 5% of our capital stock and their affiliates will beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 56.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Two of the shareholders holding more than 5% of our capital stock are affiliated with two of our directors. As a result, it is likely that certain of our largest shareholders, either individually or if acting in concert, would be able to exercise influence over most if not all matters requiring shareholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Additional equity issuances will dilute your holdings, and sales by certain of our large shareholders, directors, executive officers or a large number of other shareholders could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. As at the date of this Annual Report, we have 19,885,965 ordinary shares outstanding. With the exception of 575,000 ordinary shares held in escrow as a result of the Altura acquisition, all ordinary shares are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. Sales of a large number of our ordinary shares by certain of our large shareholders, directors, executive officers or in the aggregate by smaller previous shareholders of Lombard Medical Technologies plc could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Similarly, the perception that any primary or secondary sales may occur could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Any future issuance of our ordinary shares by us may dilute your shareholdings as well as the holdings of our existing shareholders, causing the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. In addition, any perception by potential investors that such issuances or sales might occur could also affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. We incur increased costs as a result of being a U.S. listed company. As a U.S. listed company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur previously. These costs will further increase after we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company.” We will continue to incur costs associated with our U.S. public company reporting requirements. We also will continue to incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 16 As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and NASDAQ governance standards than domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares, and you may not receive corporate and company information and disclosure that you are accustomed to receiving or in a manner in which you are accustomed to receiving it. As a foreign private issuer, the rules governing the information that we disclose differ from those governing U.S. corporations pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Although we report quarterly financial results and report certain material events, we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or provide current reports on Form 8-K disclosing significant events within four days of their occurrence and our quarterly or current reports may contain less or different information than required under U.S. filings. In addition, we are exempt from the Section 14 proxy rules, and proxy statements that we distribute will not be subject to review by the SEC. Our exemption from Section 16 rules regarding sales of ordinary shares by directors and officers means that you will have less data in this regard than shareholders of U.S. companies that are subject to the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not have all the data that you are accustomed to having when making investment decisions. Also, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares. The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers is more limited than that required of domestic U.S. issuers and there may therefore be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. public companies. As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market applicable to a U.S. issuer, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors. For example, we follow Cayman Islands law with respect to the requirements for meetings of our shareholders, which are different from the requirements of NASDAQ Rule 5620. Among other things, NASDAQ Rule 5620 requires a company to hold an annual meeting of shareholders no later than one year after the end of a company’s fiscal year-end. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association require that we hold an annual general meeting of shareholders. We are not obliged to do so under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Additionally, the minimum quorum requirement under NASDAQ Rule 5620 is 33 1/3% of the outstanding ordinary shares. However, pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the quorum required for a general meeting of shareholders consists of at least two shareholders present in person or by proxy at a meeting and entitled to vote on the business to be dealt with, who represent not less than one-third of the total par value of our issued and outstanding voting shares. As a further example, under Cayman Islands law, there is no statutory requirement for equity compensation plans to be approved by way of shareholder resolution, which is different than the requirements of NASDAQ Rule 5635(c). As such, while we may choose to seek shareholder approval for any equity compensation plans, we do not intend to adopt any requirements for shareholder approval of such plans in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association. As the corporate governance standards applicable to us are different than those applicable to domestic U.S. issuers, you may not have the same protections afforded under U.S. law and the NASDAQ rules as shareholders of companies that do not have such exemptions. We are an “emerging growth company,” and if we comply only with reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our ordinary shares could be less attractive to investors and our share price may be more volatile. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups (“JOBS”) Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may continue to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of (1) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO, (2) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1 billion or more, (3) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (4) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands which would negatively affect our results. We have received an undertaking from the Governor-in-Cabinet of the Cayman Islands that, in accordance with section 6 of the Tax Concessions Law (2011 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, until the date falling 20 years after February 24, 2014, being the date of such undertaking, no law which is enacted in the Cayman Islands imposing any tax to be levied on profits, income, gains or appreciations shall apply to us or our operations and, in addition, that no tax to be levied on profits, income, gains or appreciations or which is in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax shall be payable (i) on or in respect of the shares, debentures or other obligations of our Company or (ii) by way of the withholding in whole or in part of a payment of dividend or other distribution of income or capital by our Company to its members or a payment of principal or interest or other sums due under a debenture or other obligation of our Company. If we otherwise were to become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 There may be a risk of us being subject to tax in jurisdictions in which we do not currently consider ourselves to have any tax resident subsidiaries or permanent establishments. Our tax treatment is dependent, among other things, on the jurisdiction of our residence, including the residence of our subsidiaries, for tax purposes. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company with limited liability, resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. We attempt to manage our business such that each of our subsidiaries is resident for tax purposes solely in its jurisdiction of incorporation, and does not unintentionally create a taxable permanent establishment or other taxable presence in any other jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, which may result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequence to U.S. Holders. Based on our operations, composition of assets and market capitalization in 2015, we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, (“PFIC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2015. In general, a non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if at least (i) 75% of its gross income is classified as “passive income” or (ii) 50% of its assets (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) produce or are held for the production of passive income. For these purposes, cash is considered a passive asset. In making this determination, the non-U.S. corporation is treated as earning its proportionate share of any income and owning its proportionate share of any assets of any corporation in which it holds 25% or more (by value) of the stock. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually, after the close of the relevant taxable year. Therefore, it is possible that we could be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or in future years due to changes in the composition of our assets or income, as well as changes to our market capitalization. The market value of our assets may be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our ordinary shares, and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of medical technology companies have been especially volatile. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held our ordinary shares, however, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For example, if we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. Holders would not be eligible to make an election to treat us as a qualified electing fund, (“QEF”) election, because we do not anticipate providing U.S. Holders with the information required to permit a QEF election to be made. Such a QEF election, if available, could mitigate adverse consequences should we be classified as a PFIC. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. Federal courts may be limited. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company with limited liability, resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, and substantially all of our assets will be located outside the United States. In addition, half of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against us or our directors or officers. Further, mail addressed to us and received at our registered office will be forwarded unopened to the forwarding address supplied by our directors. Our directors will only receive, open or deal directly with mail which is addressed to them personally (as opposed to mail which is only addressed to us). We, our directors, officers, advisors or service providers (including the organization which provides registered office services in the Cayman Islands) will not bear any responsibility for any delay, howsoever caused, in mail reaching this forwarding address. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2013 Revision) (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not technically binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and certain states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. As a result, there may be significantly less protection for investors than is available to investors in companies organized in the United States, particularly Delaware. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholders derivative action in a Federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: ■ to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; and ■ to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Like many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law permits mergers and consolidations between Cayman Islands companies and between Cayman Islands companies and non-Cayman Islands companies and any such company may be the surviving entity for the purposes of mergers or the consolidated company for the purposes of consolidations. For these purposes, (a) “merger” means the merging of two or more constituent companies and the vesting of their undertaking, property and liabilities in one of such companies as the surviving company and (b) a “consolidation” means the combination of two or more constituent companies into a consolidated company and the vesting of the undertaking, property and liabilities of such companies to the consolidated company. In order to effect such a merger or consolidation, the directors of each constituent company must approve a written plan of merger or consolidation, which must, in most instances, then be authorized by a special resolution of the shareholders of each constituent company and such other authorization, if any, as may be specified in such constituent company’s articles of association. A merger between a Cayman parent company and its Cayman subsidiary or subsidiaries does not require authorization by a resolution of shareholders. For this purpose a subsidiary is a company of which at least 90% of the votes cast at its general meeting are held by the parent company. The consent of each holder of a fixed or floating security interest over a constituent company is required unless this requirement is waived by a court in the Cayman Islands. The plan of merger or consolidation must be filed with the Registrar of Companies together with a declaration as to the solvency of the consolidated or surviving company, a list of the assets and liabilities of each constituent company and an undertaking that a copy of the certificate of merger or consolidation will be given to the members and creditors of each constituent company and published in the Cayman Islands Gazette. Dissenting shareholders have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares (which, if not agreed between the parties, will be determined by the Cayman Islands court) if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions. Court approval is not required for a merger or consolidation which is effected in compliance with these statutory procedures. 18 In addition, there are statutory provisions that facilitate the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, provided that the arrangement is approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made, and who must in addition represent three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors, as the case may be, that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at a meeting, or meetings, convened for that purpose. The convening of the meetings and subsequently the arrangement must be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. While a dissenting shareholder has the right to express to the court the view that the transaction ought not be approved, the court can be expected to approve the arrangement if it determines that: ■ the statutory provisions as to the required majority vote have been met; ■ the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question, the statutory majority are acting bona fide without coercion of the minority to promote interests adverse to those of the class and that the meeting was properly constituted; ■ the arrangement is such that it may reasonably be approved by an intelligent and honest man of that share class acting in respect of his interest; and ■ the arrangement is not one which would be more properly sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law. If the arrangement and reconstruction is approved, the dissenting shareholder would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights, which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of U.S. corporations, providing rights to receive payment in cash for the judicially determined value of the shares. In addition, there are further statutory provisions to the effect that, when a take-over offer is made and approved by holders of 90.0% in value of the shares affected (within four months after the making of the offer), the offeror may, within two months following the expiry of such period, require the holders of the remaining shares to transfer such shares on the terms of the offer. An objection can be made to the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands, but this is unlikely to succeed unless there is evidence of fraud, bad faith, collusion or inequitable treatment of shareholders. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Provisions of our charter documents or Cayman law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, even if the acquisition may be beneficial to our shareholders, could make it more difficult for you to change management, and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Provisions in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. Such provisions may reduce the price that investors may be willing to pay for our ordinary shares in the future, which could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. These provisions include: ■ a prohibition on shareholder action through written consent; ■ a requirement that extraordinary general meetings of shareholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors or, in limited circumstances, by the board upon shareholder requisition; ■ an advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals and nominations to be brought before an annual general meeting; ■ provisions relating to the multiple classes and three-year terms of our directors, the manner of election of directors, removal of directors and the appointment of directors as an addition to the existing board or to fill a vacancy; ■ the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred shares with such terms as our board of directors may determine; and ■ a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of the votes cast by shareholders entitled to vote thereon in order to amend any provisions of our memorandum and articles of association. 